content/guides/tina-cloud/starter/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
last_edited: '2021-07-23T14:56:22.352Z'
---

> Would you rather try out Tina locally using the command line?<br /> `$ npx create-next-app --example https://github.com/tinacms/tina-cloud-starter`.<br />
> To start editing, with the starter running, navigate to [http://localhost:3000/admin](http://localhost:3000/admin).

This guide involves a simple Next.js application configured with TinaCMS.

Not only can you visually edit content in real-time, but since this starter is powered by Tina's GraphQL API, TinaCMS forms are automatically generated for you, all you need to do is to define your content schema ✨.

By the end of this guide, your whole team will be able to edit on a deployed version of your site — we recommend using Vercel. These invited users don't need a GitHub account, since user management is entirely handled through the TinaCMS dashboard.

Feel free to play around with this starter or modify it to make it your own! This guide is meant to act as a first step to understanding the power of the TinaCMS API and the TinaCMS dashboard. Now, let's get started!

Commit message:

add links to quickstart flow

content/guides/tina-cloud/starter/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
last_edited: '2021-10-14T14:56:22.352Z'
---

> Would you rather try out Tina locally using the command line?<br /> `$ npx create-next-app --example https://github.com/tinacms/tina-cloud-starter`.<br />
> To start editing, with the starter running, navigate to [http://localhost:3000/admin](http://localhost:3000/admin).

This guide involves a simple Next.js application configured with TinaCMS.

Not only can you visually edit content in real-time, but since this starter is powered by Tina's GraphQL API, TinaCMS forms are automatically generated for you, all you need to do is to define your content schema ✨.

By the end of this guide, your whole team will be able to edit on a deployed version of your site — we recommend using Vercel. These invited users don't need a GitHub account, since user management is entirely handled through the TinaCMS dashboard.

Feel free to play around with this starter or modify it to make it your own! This guide is meant to act as a first step to understanding the power of the TinaCMS API and the TinaCMS dashboard. Now, let's get started!

> Want to give Tina Cloud a try? Get setup in minutes with our <a href="https://app.tina.io/quickstart" target="_blank">Quickstart Setup</a>. Alternatively, continue with this Quick Start Guide to setup a site manually with Tina Cloud.
