content/docs/editing/active-field-indicator.md, before:

---
title: Active Field Indicator (Experimental)
last_edited: '2021-11-06T18:00:00.000Z'
---

{{ WarningCallout text="This is an experimental feature, and the API is subject to change. We don't yet suggest using this for production use-cases. Have any thoughts? Let us know in the chat, or through the [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/tinacms/tinacms/discussions/2250)!" }}

## Try it out

To enable Active field indication you will need to add the `data-tinafield` to your client code that is powered by Tina. The `data-tinafield` will need to match the field name you provided in your schema. Below is an example:

### Schema Code

```typescript
export default defineConfig({
  // ...
  schema: {
    collections: [
      {
        label: 'Blog Posts',
        name: 'posts',
        path: 'content/posts',
        format: 'mdx',
        fields: [
          {
            type: 'string',
            label: 'Title',
            name: 'title',
          },
          {
            type: 'rich-text',
            label: 'Body',
            name: '_body',
            templates: [],
          },
        ],
      },
    ],
  },
})
```

### Client Code

```javascript,copy
<h2 data-tinafield="title">{props.data.post.title}</h2>
```

![Active Field Indicator](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1639489428/tina-io/Active%20Field%20Indicator.gif)

Commit message:

add blurb on active field indicator

content/docs/editing/active-field-indicator.md, after:

---
title: Active Field Indicator (Experimental)
last_edited: '2021-11-06T18:00:00.000Z'
---

{{ WarningCallout text="This is an experimental feature, and the API is subject to change. We don't yet suggest using this for production use-cases. Have any thoughts? Let us know in the chat, or through the [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/tinacms/tinacms/discussions/2250)!" }}

> Note: The active field indicator is not yet compatible with the new iframe approach introduced in `0.69.23`. Support will be added soon.

## Try it out

To enable Active field indication you will need to add the `data-tinafield` to your client code that is powered by Tina. The `data-tinafield` will need to match the field name you provided in your schema. Below is an example:

### Schema Code

```typescript
export default defineConfig({
  // ...
  schema: {
    collections: [
      {
        label: 'Blog Posts',
        name: 'posts',
        path: 'content/posts',
        format: 'mdx',
        fields: [
          {
            type: 'string',
            label: 'Title',
            name: 'title',
          },
          {
            type: 'rich-text',
            label: 'Body',
            name: '_body',
            templates: [],
          },
        ],
      },
    ],
  },
})
```

### Client Code

```javascript,copy
<h2 data-tinafield="title">{props.data.post.title}</h2>
```

![Active Field Indicator](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1639489428/tina-io/Active%20Field%20Indicator.gif)
