content/docs/reference/toolkit/fields/radio-group.md, before:

---
title: Radio Group Field
prev: /docs/reference/toolkit/fields/toggle
next: /docs/reference/toolkit/fields/select
consumes:
  - file: /packages/@tinacms/fields/src/RadioGroup.tsx
    details: Shows radio group field and Option interfaces
  - file: /packages/@tinacms/fields/src/plugins/RadioGroupFieldPlugin.tsx
    details: Shows radio group field and Option interfaces
---

The `radio-group` field represents a group of radio inputs. There are two variants that can be used, "radio" and "button", and can rendered in a "horizontal" or "vertical" direction. The "radio" variant in a "horizontal" direction is used by default.

![TinaCMS Radio Group Field using a "radio" variant in a "horizontal" direction](/img/fields/radio-group-field-horizontal-radio.gif)

The "radio" variant can be rendered in a vertical direction like so.

![TinaCMS Radio Group Field using a "radio" variant in a "vertical" direction](/img/fields/radio-group-field-vertical-radio.gif)

This is what the radio group "button" variant will look like.

![TinaCMS Radio Group Field using a "button" variant in a "horizontal" direction](/img/fields/radio-group-field-horizontal-button.gif)

The "button" variant can also have a "vertical" direction as well.

![TinaCMS Radio Group Field using a "button" variant in a "vertical" direction](/img/fields/radio-group-field-vertical-button.gif)

## Options

| Option        | Description                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `component`   | The name of the plugin component. Always 'radio-group'.                                                                                                                       |
| `name`        | The path to some value in the data being edited.                                                                                                                              |
| `options`     | An array of strings or Options to select from.                                                                                                                                |
| `direction`   | An optional string indicating whether to render the radios in a "horizontal" or "vertical" orientation. This will default to "horizontal" if no value is passed. _(Optional)_ |
| `variant`     | An optional string indicating whether the "radio" or "button" variant should be used. This will default to "radio" if no value is passed. _(Optional)_                        |
| `label`       | A human readable label for the field. Defaults to the name. _(Optional)_                                                                                                      |
| `description` | Description that expands on the purpose of the field or prompts a specific action. _(Optional)_                                                                               |

```typescript
interface RadioGroupField {
  name: string
  component: string
  label?: string
  description?: string
  options: (Option | string)[]
  direction?: 'horizontal' | 'vertical'
  variant?: 'radio' | 'button'
}

type Option = {
  value: string
  label: string
}
```

> These interfaces only show the keys unique to the radio group field.
>
> Visit the [Field Config](/docs/reference/toolkit/fields) docs for a complete list of options.

## Example #1: Select an Rating

Below is an example of how a radio group field could be used to choose a rating of a customer review.

```javascript
const ReviewForm = {
  fields: [
    {
      component: 'radio-group',
      direction: 'vertical',
      name: 'frontmatter.rating',
      label: 'Rating',
      description: 'Choose a rating for this review',
      options: [
        { label: '★', value: 'one_star' },
        { label: '★★', value: 'two_star' },
        { label: '★★★', value: 'three_star' },
        { label: '★★★★', value: 'four_star' },
        { label: '★★★★★', value: 'five_star' },
      ],
    },
    // ...
  ],
}
```

## Example #2: Choose an Amount of Padding

Below is an example of how a radio group field could be used to set the amount of padding for a section on a page.

```javascript
const SectionForm = {
  fields: [
    {
      component: 'radio-group',
      variant: 'button',
      name: 'padding',
      label: 'Padding',
      description: 'Choose the amount of padding for this section',
      options: [
        { label: 'XS', value: 'xs' },
        { label: 'SM', value: 'sm' },
        { label: 'MD', value: 'md' },
        { label: 'LG', value: 'lg' },
        { label: 'XL', value: 'xl' },
      ],
    },
    // ...
  ],
}
```

Commit message:

Add alert indicating the toolkit field reference may not be what the reader is after

content/docs/reference/toolkit/fields/radio-group.md, after:

---
title: Radio Group Field
prev: /docs/reference/toolkit/fields/toggle
next: /docs/reference/toolkit/fields/select
consumes:
  - file: /packages/@tinacms/fields/src/RadioGroup.tsx
    details: Shows radio group field and Option interfaces
  - file: /packages/@tinacms/fields/src/plugins/RadioGroupFieldPlugin.tsx
    details: Shows radio group field and Option interfaces
---

{{ WarningCallout text="This is an advanced-use feature, and likely not something you'll need to configure. What you probably want is the [content types reference](/docs/reference/types/)" }}

The `radio-group` field represents a group of radio inputs. There are two variants that can be used, "radio" and "button", and can rendered in a "horizontal" or "vertical" direction. The "radio" variant in a "horizontal" direction is used by default.

![TinaCMS Radio Group Field using a "radio" variant in a "horizontal" direction](/img/fields/radio-group-field-horizontal-radio.gif)

The "radio" variant can be rendered in a vertical direction like so.

![TinaCMS Radio Group Field using a "radio" variant in a "vertical" direction](/img/fields/radio-group-field-vertical-radio.gif)

This is what the radio group "button" variant will look like.

![TinaCMS Radio Group Field using a "button" variant in a "horizontal" direction](/img/fields/radio-group-field-horizontal-button.gif)

The "button" variant can also have a "vertical" direction as well.

![TinaCMS Radio Group Field using a "button" variant in a "vertical" direction](/img/fields/radio-group-field-vertical-button.gif)

## Options

| Option        | Description                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `component`   | The name of the plugin component. Always 'radio-group'.                                                                                                                       |
| `name`        | The path to some value in the data being edited.                                                                                                                              |
| `options`     | An array of strings or Options to select from.                                                                                                                                |
| `direction`   | An optional string indicating whether to render the radios in a "horizontal" or "vertical" orientation. This will default to "horizontal" if no value is passed. _(Optional)_ |
| `variant`     | An optional string indicating whether the "radio" or "button" variant should be used. This will default to "radio" if no value is passed. _(Optional)_                        |
| `label`       | A human readable label for the field. Defaults to the name. _(Optional)_                                                                                                      |
| `description` | Description that expands on the purpose of the field or prompts a specific action. _(Optional)_                                                                               |

```typescript
interface RadioGroupField {
  name: string
  component: string
  label?: string
  description?: string
  options: (Option | string)[]
  direction?: 'horizontal' | 'vertical'
  variant?: 'radio' | 'button'
}

type Option = {
  value: string
  label: string
}
```

> These interfaces only show the keys unique to the radio group field.
>
> Visit the [Field Config](/docs/reference/toolkit/fields) docs for a complete list of options.

## Example #1: Select an Rating

Below is an example of how a radio group field could be used to choose a rating of a customer review.

```javascript
const ReviewForm = {
  fields: [
    {
      component: 'radio-group',
      direction: 'vertical',
      name: 'frontmatter.rating',
      label: 'Rating',
      description: 'Choose a rating for this review',
      options: [
        { label: '★', value: 'one_star' },
        { label: '★★', value: 'two_star' },
        { label: '★★★', value: 'three_star' },
        { label: '★★★★', value: 'four_star' },
        { label: '★★★★★', value: 'five_star' },
      ],
    },
    // ...
  ],
}
```

## Example #2: Choose an Amount of Padding

Below is an example of how a radio group field could be used to set the amount of padding for a section on a page.

```javascript
const SectionForm = {
  fields: [
    {
      component: 'radio-group',
      variant: 'button',
      name: 'padding',
      label: 'Padding',
      description: 'Choose the amount of padding for this section',
      options: [
        { label: 'XS', value: 'xs' },
        { label: 'SM', value: 'sm' },
        { label: 'MD', value: 'md' },
        { label: 'LG', value: 'lg' },
        { label: 'XL', value: 'xl' },
      ],
    },
    // ...
  ],
}
```
