content/docs/reference/toolkit/fields/select.md, before:

---
title: Select Field
prev: /docs/reference/toolkit/fields/radio-group
next: /docs/reference/toolkit/fields/tags
consumes:
  - file: /packages/@tinacms/fields/src/Select.tsx
    details: Shows select field and Option interfaces
  - file: /packages/@tinacms/fields/src/plugins/SelectFieldPlugin.tsx
    details: Shows select field and Option interfaces
---

The `select` field represents a select element.

![TinaCMS Select Field](/img/fields/select-field.png)

## Options

| Option        | Description                                                                                     |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `component`   | The name of the plugin component. Always 'select'.                                              |
| `name`        | The path to some value in the data being edited.                                                |
| `options`     | An array of strings or Options to select from.                                                  |
| `label`       | A human readable label for the field. Defaults to the name. _(Optional)_                        |
| `description` | Description that expands on the purpose of the field or prompts a specific action. _(Optional)_ |

```typescript
interface SelectField {
  name: string
  component: 'select'
  label?: string
  description?: string
  options: (Option | string)[]
}

type Option = {
  value: string
  label: string
}
```

> This interfaces only shows the keys unique to the select field.
>
> Visit the [Field Config](/docs/reference/toolkit/fields) docs for a complete list of options.

## Example #1: Select an Author

Below is an example of how a select field could be used to select the author of a blog post

```javascript
const BlogPostForm = {
  fields: [
    {
      component: 'select',
      name: 'frontmatter.authors',
      label: 'Author',
      description: 'Select an author for this post',
      options: ['Arundhati Roy', 'Ruth Ozeki', 'Zadie Smith'],
    },
    // ...
  ],
}
```

## Example #2: Select a Heading Color

Below is an example of how a text field could be used to set the heading color for a blog post.

```javascript
const BlogPostForm = {
  fields: [
    {
      component: 'color',
      name: 'heading_color',
      label: 'Heading Color',
      description: 'Select the color for the heading',
      options: [
        {
          value: '#ff0000',
          label: 'Red',
        },
        {
          value: '#000000',
          label: 'Black',
        },
      ],
    },
    // ...
  ],
}
```

Commit message:

Add alert indicating the toolkit field reference may not be what the reader is after

content/docs/reference/toolkit/fields/select.md, after:

---
title: Select Field
prev: /docs/reference/toolkit/fields/radio-group
next: /docs/reference/toolkit/fields/tags
consumes:
  - file: /packages/@tinacms/fields/src/Select.tsx
    details: Shows select field and Option interfaces
  - file: /packages/@tinacms/fields/src/plugins/SelectFieldPlugin.tsx
    details: Shows select field and Option interfaces
---

{{ WarningCallout text="This is an advanced-use feature, and likely not something you'll need to configure. What you probably want is the [content types reference](/docs/reference/types/)" }}

The `select` field represents a select element.

![TinaCMS Select Field](/img/fields/select-field.png)

## Options

| Option        | Description                                                                                     |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `component`   | The name of the plugin component. Always 'select'.                                              |
| `name`        | The path to some value in the data being edited.                                                |
| `options`     | An array of strings or Options to select from.                                                  |
| `label`       | A human readable label for the field. Defaults to the name. _(Optional)_                        |
| `description` | Description that expands on the purpose of the field or prompts a specific action. _(Optional)_ |

```typescript
interface SelectField {
  name: string
  component: 'select'
  label?: string
  description?: string
  options: (Option | string)[]
}

type Option = {
  value: string
  label: string
}
```

> This interfaces only shows the keys unique to the select field.
>
> Visit the [Field Config](/docs/reference/toolkit/fields) docs for a complete list of options.

## Example #1: Select an Author

Below is an example of how a select field could be used to select the author of a blog post

```javascript
const BlogPostForm = {
  fields: [
    {
      component: 'select',
      name: 'frontmatter.authors',
      label: 'Author',
      description: 'Select an author for this post',
      options: ['Arundhati Roy', 'Ruth Ozeki', 'Zadie Smith'],
    },
    // ...
  ],
}
```

## Example #2: Select a Heading Color

Below is an example of how a text field could be used to set the heading color for a blog post.

```javascript
const BlogPostForm = {
  fields: [
    {
      component: 'color',
      name: 'heading_color',
      label: 'Heading Color',
      description: 'Select the color for the heading',
      options: [
        {
          value: '#ff0000',
          label: 'Red',
        },
        {
          value: '#000000',
          label: 'Black',
        },
      ],
    },
    // ...
  ],
}
```
