content/docs/reference/toolkit/fields/toggle.md, before:

---
title: Toggle Field
prev: /docs/reference/toolkit/fields/color
next: /docs/reference/toolkit/fields/radio-group
consumes:
  - file: /packages/tinacms/src/plugins/fields/ToggleFieldPlugin.tsx
    details: Shows toggle field interface and config options
  - file: /packages/@tinacms/fields/src/Toggle.ts
    details: Shows toggle field interface and config options
---

The `toggle` field represents a true/false toggle. This field is typically used for boolean content values. You could use this to toggle a certain feature on the page on or off.

![tinacms-toggle-field](/img/fields/toggle.png)

## Options

```typescript
interface ToggleConfig extends FieldConfig {
  component: 'toggle'
  name: string
  label?: string
  description?: string
  toggleLabels?: boolean | { true: string; false: string }
}
```

| Option         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `component`    | The name of the plugin component. Always `'toggle'`                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `name`         | The path to some value in the data being edited.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `label`        | A human readable label for the field. Defaults to the `name`. _(Optional)_                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `description`  | Description that expands on the purpose of the field or prompts a specific action. _(Optional)_                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `toggleLabels` | Customize 'labels' next to the true / false states of the toggle. When `true`, the labels default to 'Yes' and 'No'. Alternatively, you can pass an object with the properties `true` and `false` with custom strings to render as labels. _(Optional: Defaults to `false`)_ |

> This interfaces only shows the keys unique to the date field.
>
> Visit the [Field Config](/docs/reference/toolkit/fields) docs for a complete list of options.

## Example: Published Flag

Below is an example of how a `toggle` field could be used to mark a blog post as published.

```typescript
const BlogPostForm = {
  fields: [
    {
      name: 'published',
      component: 'toggle',
      label: 'Published',
      description: 'Check to mark this to publish the post.',
      toggleLabels: {
        true: 'On',
        false: 'Off',
      },
    },
    // ...
  ],
}
```

##

Commit message:

Add alert indicating the toolkit field reference may not be what the reader is after

content/docs/reference/toolkit/fields/toggle.md, after:

---
title: Toggle Field
prev: /docs/reference/toolkit/fields/color
next: /docs/reference/toolkit/fields/radio-group
consumes:
  - file: /packages/tinacms/src/plugins/fields/ToggleFieldPlugin.tsx
    details: Shows toggle field interface and config options
  - file: /packages/@tinacms/fields/src/Toggle.ts
    details: Shows toggle field interface and config options
---

{{ WarningCallout text="This is an advanced-use feature, and likely not something you'll need to configure. What you probably want is the [content types reference](/docs/reference/types/)" }}

The `toggle` field represents a true/false toggle. This field is typically used for boolean content values. You could use this to toggle a certain feature on the page on or off.

![tinacms-toggle-field](/img/fields/toggle.png)

## Options

```typescript
interface ToggleConfig extends FieldConfig {
  component: 'toggle'
  name: string
  label?: string
  description?: string
  toggleLabels?: boolean | { true: string; false: string }
}
```

| Option         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `component`    | The name of the plugin component. Always `'toggle'`                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `name`         | The path to some value in the data being edited.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `label`        | A human readable label for the field. Defaults to the `name`. _(Optional)_                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `description`  | Description that expands on the purpose of the field or prompts a specific action. _(Optional)_                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `toggleLabels` | Customize 'labels' next to the true / false states of the toggle. When `true`, the labels default to 'Yes' and 'No'. Alternatively, you can pass an object with the properties `true` and `false` with custom strings to render as labels. _(Optional: Defaults to `false`)_ |

> This interfaces only shows the keys unique to the date field.
>
> Visit the [Field Config](/docs/reference/toolkit/fields) docs for a complete list of options.

## Example: Published Flag

Below is an example of how a `toggle` field could be used to mark a blog post as published.

```typescript
const BlogPostForm = {
  fields: [
    {
      name: 'published',
      component: 'toggle',
      label: 'Published',
      description: 'Check to mark this to publish the post.',
      toggleLabels: {
        true: 'On',
        false: 'Off',
      },
    },
    // ...
  ],
}
```

##
