content/docs/self-hosted/git-provider/github.md, before:

---
title: Github Git Provider
id: '/docs/self-hosted/git-provider/github'
prev: '/docs/self-hosted/git-provider/overview'
next: '/docs/self-hosted/git-provider/make-your-own'
---

The Github Git Provider handles saving and deleting content to github. It can be used as a prop to the `createDatabase` function.

## Adding the Github Git Provider

```ts
import { GitHubProvider } from 'tinacms-gitprovider-github'
// database.{ts,js}
//...

export default isLocal ? createLocalDatabase() ? createDatabase({
    gitProvider: new GitHubProvider({
        branch: process.env.GITHUB_BRANCH,
        owner: process.env.GITHUB_OWNER,
        repo: process.env.GITHUB_REPO,
        token: process.env.GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN,
      }),
    // ...
})
```

## Github Git Provider Options

### Required Options

| Option   | Description                                                                               |
| -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `branch` | The branch to save content to.                                                            |
| `owner`  | The owner of the repo.                                                                    |
| `repo`   | The repo to save content to.                                                              |
| `token`  | A [Github Personal Access Token](https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new). |

### Optional Options

| Option           | Description                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `commitMessage`  | The commit message to use when saving content. Defaults to `Edited with TinaCMS`.                                           |
| `rootPath`       | This path will be prefixed to all paths (good for monorepos)                                                                |
| `octokitOptions` | Options passed to the [Octokit constructor ](https://github.com/octokit/octokit.js/blob/main/README.md#constructor-options) |

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review
Update based on feedback from PR

Co-authored-by: Kelly Davis <kldavis4@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Jeff See <jeffsee.55@gmail.com>

content/docs/self-hosted/git-provider/github.md, after:

---
title: GitHub Git Provider
id: '/docs/self-hosted/git-provider/github'
prev: '/docs/self-hosted/git-provider/overview'
next: '/docs/self-hosted/git-provider/make-your-own'
---

The GitHub Git Provider handles saving and deleting content to a GitHub hosted git repository. It is configured as a parameter to the `createDatabase` function.

## Adding the GitHub Git Provider

```ts
import { GitHubProvider } from 'tinacms-gitprovider-github'
// database.{ts,js}
//...

export default isLocal ? createLocalDatabase() ? createDatabase({
    gitProvider: new GitHubProvider({
        branch: process.env.GITHUB_BRANCH,
        owner: process.env.GITHUB_OWNER,
        repo: process.env.GITHUB_REPO,
        token: process.env.GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN,
      }),
    // ...
})
```

## Github Git Provider Options

### Required Parameters

| Option   | Description                                                                               |
| -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `branch` | The branch to save content to.                                                            |
| `owner`  | The owner of the repo.                                                                    |
| `repo`   | The repo to save content to.                                                              |
| `token`  | A [Github Personal Access Token](https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new). |

### Optional Parameters

| Option           | Description                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `commitMessage`  | The commit message to use when saving content. Defaults to `Edited with TinaCMS`.                                           |
| `rootPath`       | This path will be prefixed to all paths. Usually only used in monorepos. Optional. |
| `octokitOptions` | Options passed to the [Octokit constructor ](https://github.com/octokit/octokit.js/blob/main/README.md#constructor-options) |
