content/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects.md, before:

---
title: Projects
id: /docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects
next: /docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/users
---

**Projects** connect Tina Cloud with a GitHub repository. A project is the **link between your site and your site's editors**, allowing users that you have authorized to access and modify the site's content.

> If it is your first time accessing the Tina Cloud dashboard, you will be given two options for setting up your first project. You can fork our <a href="https://github.com/tinacms/tina-cloud-starter" target="_blank">pre-built Next.js starter</a> which gets you up and running with Tina quickly and easily. Alternatively, you can connect to an existing GitHub repository.

## Setup

### 1. Authorizing GitHub

When setting up a project, the first step will be to authenticate with GitHub. A popup window will ask for permission to give Tina.io access to your GitHub repositories.

This authorization will allow Tina Cloud to push and pull content to and from the GitHub repository associated with your site.

### 2. Choosing the GitHub repository

Once GitHub has been authorized, a list of repositories will be displayed. The next step is to choose the repository containing your site's content.

If you don't see your repository within the list, you may have to re-configure your Tina.io permissions within GitHub.

### 3. Configuring the project

In the last step, the following properties must be configured:

#### Project Name

This name is shown to your users when they login to the project. Defaults to the repository name.

#### Site URL(s)

In these fields, enter both the local URL and the production site URL (if known). For security reasons, Tina will only work at these locations.

If you are developing locally, this value might be something like:

`http://localhost:3000`.

If Tina Cloud is configured on your production site, this value might be something like:

`https://<YOUR-SITE-NAME.com>`

> For the Site URL, Only the URL origin is needed. There is no need to include the path to any specific pages.

##### Glob Patterns

Tina also supports Glob patterns for the Site URL. This can be useful if you want to allow editing on dynamic preview deployments.

E.g. on Vercel this may look like: `https://<VERCEL-PROJECT-NAME>-*-<VERCEL-ACCOUNT-OWNER>.vercel.app`

### 4. Using the project

Once your project is created, you will see it listed on your [Projects](https://app.tina.io/projects) page.

## Administering the project

### Overview

A project's Overview page gives you an important value: your project's unique **Client ID**. This value is used by Tina Cloud to connect to your site's repository. You will need to use this value when setting up your site to use Tina.

### Configuration

After your project has been created, you can visit the Configuration page to update the Project Name, Site URL(s), or the GitHub repository

#### Changing the Repository

From the project configuration screen, click the "Change Repository" button. You will authorize Tina.io again and a list of repositories will be displayed. Selecting the new repository and click Save Project to update the repository.

#### Advanced Settings

The Advanced Settings button is located in the Configuration tab of your project in Tina Cloud.

##### Path To Tina

If your \`tina\` directory is at the project root (as is for most site), this field can be left blank.\
\
If your GitHub repository uses a monorepo structure, the Path To Tina Config input can be used to specify the path to the
`tina` directory in your repository. For example, if you have a project named `my-site`, and it is located in the
`projects` directory of your repository, you would enter `projects/my-site` in this field and click Save Project to
update the project.

##### Refresh Webhooks

In rare circumstances, the GitHub Webhook connecting your repository to Tina Cloud may be disrupted. If the webhook does
not execute, Tina Cloud may become out of sync with your GitHub repository. Click the "Refresh Webhooks" button to restore them.

##### Export Branch

Clicking this opens a modal dialog that allows you to push a new branch with the changes from an existing branch at a
particular point in time. First select the branch where the changes are located under Source Branch. An export branch
name is auto-generated from this selection, but can also be edited as desired as long as it doesn't conflict with an
exisitng branch name. Next, select the point in time from which you want to push the changes, either
'Last Successful Push' or a custom date in the past. Once these selections are made, click the 'Export Branch' button. After
a few minutes, the new branch will be available in your GitHub repository with any changes in Tina Cloud. A pull request
can then be created to merge the changes to your desired branch.

##### Reset Repository Cache

Clicking this will completely reset the cached copy of your GitHub repository and initiate a reindexing process. Any
changes only present in the cached copy will be lost. Before resetting the cache, you should ensure that any changes have
been successfully pushed to GitHub using the Export Branch feature.

##### Force Push

If there are changes in the repository cache which cannot be automatically merged to your GitHub repository, it may be
necessary to execute a force push. With a force push, the commit history on the remote will be forcefully overwritten
with the history in the repository cache. This should only be used if you are confident that the changes in the
TinaCMS repository cache are correct.

### Read Only Tokens

Read-only tokens provide read-only access to your project's content.

#### Generate tokens from the dashboard

Navigate to [Tina Cloud](https://app.tina.io) and click on the project you wish to add a token to, click on the "tokens" tab
![Tina cloud token tab](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1667433036/tina-io/docs/tina-cloud/Screen_Shot_2022-11-02_at_8.50.24_PM.png)

Next, click "New Token" and fill out fields. The token name is how you can identify the token and "Git branches" is the list of branches separated by commas that the token has access to.

![Creating a new token in Tina Cloud](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1667433115/tina-io/docs/tina-cloud/Screen_Shot_2022-11-02_at_8.51.47_PM.png)

This token will be used later when we connect the site's frontend to our project.

#### Wild card matching

Wild card matching is supported in the branch names using '\*' to match anything. For example: `feat/*` will match `feat/foo` and `feat/bar`. If only `*` is entered it will match any branch.

Wild card matching is useful for matching branches that have not been created yet and can be used for editorial workflows.

Commit message:

docs: Update after removing reset cache btn (#1568)
* docs: Update after removing reset cache btn

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Kelly Davis <kldavis4@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Kelly Davis <kldavis4@users.noreply.github.com>

content/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects.md, after:

---
title: Projects
id: /docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects
next: /docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/users
---

**Projects** connect Tina Cloud with a GitHub repository. A project is the **link between your site and your site's editors**, allowing users that you have authorized to access and modify the site's content.

> If it is your first time accessing the Tina Cloud dashboard, you will be given two options for setting up your first project. You can fork our <a href="https://github.com/tinacms/tina-cloud-starter" target="_blank">pre-built Next.js starter</a> which gets you up and running with Tina quickly and easily. Alternatively, you can connect to an existing GitHub repository.

## Setup

### 1. Authorizing GitHub

When setting up a project, the first step will be to authenticate with GitHub. A popup window will ask for permission to give Tina.io access to your GitHub repositories.

This authorization will allow Tina Cloud to push and pull content to and from the GitHub repository associated with your site.

### 2. Choosing the GitHub repository

Once GitHub has been authorized, a list of repositories will be displayed. The next step is to choose the repository containing your site's content.

If you don't see your repository within the list, you may have to re-configure your Tina.io permissions within GitHub.

### 3. Configuring the project

In the last step, the following properties must be configured:

#### Project Name

This name is shown to your users when they login to the project. Defaults to the repository name.

#### Site URL(s)

In these fields, enter both the local URL and the production site URL (if known). For security reasons, Tina will only work at these locations.

If you are developing locally, this value might be something like:

`http://localhost:3000`.

If Tina Cloud is configured on your production site, this value might be something like:

`https://<YOUR-SITE-NAME.com>`

> For the Site URL, Only the URL origin is needed. There is no need to include the path to any specific pages.

##### Glob Patterns

Tina also supports Glob patterns for the Site URL. This can be useful if you want to allow editing on dynamic preview deployments.

E.g. on Vercel this may look like: `https://<VERCEL-PROJECT-NAME>-*-<VERCEL-ACCOUNT-OWNER>.vercel.app`

### 4. Using the project

Once your project is created, you will see it listed on your [Projects](https://app.tina.io/projects) page.

## Administering the project

### Overview

A project's Overview page gives you an important value: your project's unique **Client ID**. This value is used by Tina Cloud to connect to your site's repository. You will need to use this value when setting up your site to use Tina.

### Configuration

After your project has been created, you can visit the Configuration page to update the Project Name, Site URL(s), or the GitHub repository

#### Changing the Repository

From the project configuration screen, click the "Change Repository" button. You will authorize Tina.io again and a list of repositories will be displayed. Selecting the new repository and click Save Project to update the repository.

#### Advanced Settings

The Advanced Settings button is located in the Configuration tab of your project in Tina Cloud.

##### Path To Tina

If your \`tina\` directory is at the project root (as is for most site), this field can be left blank.\
\
If your GitHub repository uses a monorepo structure, the Path To Tina Config input can be used to specify the path to the
`tina` directory in your repository. For example, if you have a project named `my-site`, and it is located in the
`projects` directory of your repository, you would enter `projects/my-site` in this field and click Save Project to
update the project.

##### Refresh Webhooks

In rare circumstances, the GitHub Webhook connecting your repository to Tina Cloud may be disrupted. If the webhook does
not execute, Tina Cloud may become out of sync with your GitHub repository. Click the "Refresh Webhooks" button to restore them.

##### Export Branch

Clicking this opens a modal dialog that allows you to push a new branch with the changes from an existing branch at a
particular point in time. First select the branch where the changes are located under Source Branch. An export branch
name is auto-generated from this selection, but can also be edited as desired as long as it doesn't conflict with an
exisitng branch name. Next, select the point in time from which you want to push the changes, either
'Last Successful Push' or a custom date in the past. Once these selections are made, click the 'Export Branch' button. After
a few minutes, the new branch will be available in your GitHub repository with any changes in Tina Cloud. A pull request
can then be created to merge the changes to your desired branch.

##### Branch "Reindex"

Clicking "Reindex" on a branch will completely reset the cached copy of that branch in your GitHub repository and initiate a reindexing process. Any changes only present in the cached copy will be lost. Before reindexing, you should ensure that any changes have
been successfully pushed to GitHub using the Export Branch feature.

##### Force Push

If there are changes in the repository cache which cannot be automatically merged to your GitHub repository, it may be
necessary to execute a force push. With a force push, the commit history on the remote will be forcefully overwritten
with the history in the repository cache. This should only be used if you are confident that the changes in the
TinaCMS repository cache are correct.

### Read Only Tokens

Read-only tokens provide read-only access to your project's content.

#### Generate tokens from the dashboard

Navigate to [Tina Cloud](https://app.tina.io) and click on the project you wish to add a token to, click on the "tokens" tab
![Tina cloud token tab](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1667433036/tina-io/docs/tina-cloud/Screen_Shot_2022-11-02_at_8.50.24_PM.png)

Next, click "New Token" and fill out fields. The token name is how you can identify the token and "Git branches" is the list of branches separated by commas that the token has access to.

![Creating a new token in Tina Cloud](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1667433115/tina-io/docs/tina-cloud/Screen_Shot_2022-11-02_at_8.51.47_PM.png)

This token will be used later when we connect the site's frontend to our project.

#### Wild card matching

Wild card matching is supported in the branch names using '\*' to match anything. For example: `feat/*` will match `feat/foo` and `feat/bar`. If only `*` is entered it will match any branch.

Wild card matching is useful for matching branches that have not been created yet and can be used for editorial workflows.
