content/docs/reference/media/external/authentication.mdx, before:

---
title: Setting up Authentication
---

Tina supports using external media providers, however a light backend media handler needs to be setup/hosted by the user. Tina offers some helpers to make this easy, for `cloudinary`,`s3`, & `dos` ("Digital Ocean Spaces")

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @tinacms/auth
```

Depending on your site's framework & hosting provider, there are multiple ways to host the media handler.

> In the following examples, replace `<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>` with `cloudinary`,`s3`, or `dos`.

### Option 1) Next.js API Routes (NextJS-only)

Set up a new API route in the `pages` directory of your Next.js app at `pages/api/<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>/[...media].ts`.

Then add a new catch-all API route for media by calling createMediaHandler method of your media store library.

Import `isAuthorized` from ["@tinacms/auth"](https://github.com/tinacms/tinacms/tree/main/packages/%40tinacms/auth).

The `authorized` key will make it so only authorized users within Tina Cloud can upload and make media edits.

```ts
// pages/api/<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>/[...media].ts

import { createMediaHandler } from 'next-tinacms-<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>/dist/handlers'

import { isAuthorized } from '@tinacms/auth'

export default createMediaHandler({
  // ...
  authorized: async (req, _res) => {
    try {
      if (process.env.NODE_ENV == 'development') {
        return true
      }

      const user = await isAuthorized(req)

      return user && user.verified
    } catch (e) {
      console.error(e)
      return false
    }
  },
})
```

### Option 2) Vercel API Routes

Vercel supports creating Serverless functions by creating a `/api` directory at the project root. To set this up, follow the above [NextJS-specific instructions](/docs/reference/media/external/authentication/#option-1-nextjs-api-routes-nextjs-only), but use `/api/<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>/[...media].ts` instead of `/pages/api/<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>/[...media].ts`

> Note: You may notice that the package names may contain "next" (e.g: `next-tinacms-cloudinary`). You can still use these packages for other frameworks.

### Option 3) Netlify Functions

If your site is hosted on Netlify, you can use ["Netlify Functions"](https://docs.netlify.com/functions/overview/) to host your media handler.

First, you must set up redirects so that all requests to `/api/*` can be redirected to Netlify Functions. You can set up redirects at `netlify.toml`. We are also going to build our functions with [esbuild](https://docs.netlify.com/configure-builds/file-based-configuration/#functions) so we will set that in the `netlify.toml` as well.

Add the following to the `netlify.toml` file in the root of your project.

```text
[[redirects]]
    from = '/api/*'
    to = '/.netlify/functions/api/:splat'
    status = 200

[functions]
    node_bundler = 'esbuild'
```

Next, you must set up api routes for the media handler.

Install the following dependencies.

```bash
yarn add serverless-http express @tinacms/auth next-tinacms-<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>
```

Make a new file called `netlify/functions/api/api.js` and add the following code.

> Note: the file path could be different if you are using a different [functions directory](https://docs.netlify.com/configure-builds/file-based-configuration/#functions).

```js
import ServerlessHttp from 'serverless-http'
import express, { Router } from 'express'
import { isAuthorized } from '@tinacms/auth'
import { createMediaHandler } from 'next-tinacms-<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>/dist/handlers'

const app = express()

const router = Router()

const mediaHandler = createMediaHandler({
  // ...
  // See the next section for more details on what goes in the createMediaHandler
  authorized: async (req, _res) => {
    try {
      if (process.env.NODE_ENV == 'development') {
        return true
      }

      const user = await isAuthorized(req)

      return user && user.verified
    } catch (e) {
      console.error(e)
      return false
    }
  },
})

router.get('/cloudinary/media', mediaHandler)

router.post('/cloudinary/media', mediaHandler)

router.delete('/cloudinary/media/:media', (req, res) => {
  req.query.media = ['media', req.params.media]
  return mediaHandler(req, res)
})

app.use('/api/', router)
app.use('/.netlify/functions/api/', router)

export const handler = ServerlessHttp(app)
```

### Option 3) AWS Lambda

If your site is hosted on AWS, you can use [AWS Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/) to host your media handler. The following example
uses the S3 media handler, but you can use any media handler.

#### Prerequisites

`npm install express @vendia/serverless-express @tinacms/auth body-parser`

#### Lambda Function

1. To connect TinaCMS endpoints to AWS services, you'll need to create a Lambda Function in Node 14.x. Here's the code you'll need:

```ts
// index.ts
import express, { Router } from 'express'
import serverlessExpress from '@vendia/serverless-express'
import { isAuthorized } from '@tinacms/auth'
import { createMediaHandler } from 'next-tinacms-s3/dist/handlers'
import bodyParser from 'body-parser'

// Configure TinaCMS
const mediaHandler = createMediaHandler({
  config: {
    credentials: {
      accessKeyId: process.env.TINA_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID || '',
      secretAccessKey: process.env.TINA_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY || '',
    },
    region: process.env.TINA_AWS_REGION,
  },
  bucket: process.env.TINA_AWS_BUCKET_NAME || '',
  authorized: async (req, _res): Promise<any> => {
    if (process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development') {
      return true
    }
    try {
      const user = await isAuthorized(req)
      return user && user.verified
    } catch (e) {
      console.error(e)
      return false
    }
  },
})

// Set up the express app and router
const app = express()
const router = Router()
app.use(bodyParser.json())

// Define routes for media handling
router.get('/s3/media', mediaHandler)
router.post('/s3/media', mediaHandler)
router.delete('/s3/media/:media', (req, res) => {
  req.query.media = ['media', req.params.media]
  return mediaHandler(req, res)
})

// Mount the router on the app
app.use('/api/', router)

// Export the handler function
exports.handler = serverlessExpress({ app })
```

1. Be sure to configure the necessary environment variables:

```yaml
TINA_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=******************
TINA_AWS_BUCKET_NAME=******************
TINA_AWS_REGION=********
TINA_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=******************
```

#### API Gateway

1. With the Lambda Function in place, you can proceed to create an API Gateway:
   1. Click on **`Create API`**
   2. Select **REST API**
2. Once the API is created, create a resource under the root path named **`/api`** by going to _Resources_ and selecting _Create Resource_
3. Next, create a nested child path that takes all **`/api`** child paths by creating a resource that uses the **`{proxy+}`** special syntax. Make sure to tick the **_Configure as proxy resource._**

   When setting up the ANY method, pass the Lambda Function that handles the TinaCMS media manager logic.

   Click on **`save`** and allow API Gateway to add permission to the Lambda Function

4. Deploy your API by clicking on the _Action_ dropdown and selecting Deploy API
   1. Select **`[New Stage]`** for the Deployment Stage and type a _Stage name_
   2. Once the API is deployed, you can see the _Invoke URL_ in the _Stages_ menu by clicking on the stage you've created.
5. Configure **Binary Media Types** by going to the _Settings_ Menu and adding the **`/*`** wildcard

#### CloudFront

1. To complete the connection, create a new **Origin** for CloudFront using the _Invocation URL_ of the API Gateway that was just created. Set the Origin Path to the name of the stage where the API was deployed.
2. Create a new **Behaviour** for CloudFront that will intercept requests with the **`/api/s3/media*`** path and use the API Gateway origin that was just created. Make sure to allow the following HTTP methods: **`GET`**, **`HEAD`**, **`OPTIONS`**, **`PUT`**, **`POST`**, **`PATCH`**, and **`DELETE`**.
   1. Under the **Cache key and origin requests** section, select the _Cache policy and origin request policy_ option. For the _Cache policy_, select **CachingDisabled**. For the _Origin request policy_, select **AllViewerExceptHostHeader**.
3. Repeat the above process to create another behaviour that intercepts requests with the **`/api/s3/media/*`** path.

## Register the Media Store on the frontend

Now, you can replace the default repo-based media with the external media store. You can register a media store via the `loadCustomStore` prop.

The `loadCustomStore` prop can be configured within `tina/config` file.

```diff
// tina/config.{ts,js,jsx}

// ...

export default defineConfig({
    // ...
    media: {
-      tina: {
-        publicFolder: "",
-        mediaRoot: ""
-      },
+      loadCustomStore: async () => {
+        const pack = await import("next-tinacms-<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>");
+        return pack.TinaCloud<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE>;
+      },
    }
})
```

Now you can manage external media store inside TinaCMS. To learn more about each media store in detail, please refer to the next sections.

Commit message:

Add tina-lock.json info (#2014)
Co-authored-by: Brook J <jeynesbrook@gmail.com>

content/docs/reference/media/external/authentication.mdx, after:

---
title: Setting up Authentication
---

Tina supports using external media providers, however a light backend media handler needs to be setup/hosted by the user. Tina offers some helpers to make this easy, for `cloudinary`,`s3`, & `dos` ("Digital Ocean Spaces")

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @tinacms/auth
```

Depending on your site's framework & hosting provider, there are multiple ways to host the media handler.

> In the following examples, replace `<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>` with `cloudinary`,`s3`, or `dos`.

### Option 1) Next.js API Routes (NextJS-only)

Set up a new API route in the `pages` directory of your Next.js app at `pages/api/<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>/[...media].ts`.

Then add a new catch-all API route for media by calling createMediaHandler method of your media store library.

Import `isAuthorized` from ["@tinacms/auth"](https://github.com/tinacms/tinacms/tree/main/packages/%40tinacms/auth).

The `authorized` key will make it so only authorized users within Tina Cloud can upload and make media edits.

```ts
// pages/api/<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>/[...media].ts

import { createMediaHandler } from 'next-tinacms-<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>/dist/handlers'

import { isAuthorized } from '@tinacms/auth'

export default createMediaHandler({
  // ...
  authorized: async (req, _res) => {
    try {
      if (process.env.NODE_ENV == 'development') {
        return true
      }

      const user = await isAuthorized(req)

      return user && user.verified
    } catch (e) {
      console.error(e)
      return false
    }
  },
})
```

### Option 2) Vercel API Routes

Vercel supports creating Serverless functions by creating a `/api` directory at the project root. To set this up, follow the above [NextJS-specific instructions](/docs/reference/media/external/authentication/#option-1-nextjs-api-routes-nextjs-only), but use `/api/<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>/[...media].ts` instead of `/pages/api/<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>/[...media].ts`

> Note: You may notice that the package names may contain "next" (e.g: `next-tinacms-cloudinary`). You can still use these packages for other frameworks.

### Option 3) Netlify Functions

If your site is hosted on Netlify, you can use ["Netlify Functions"](https://docs.netlify.com/functions/overview/) to host your media handler.

First, you must set up redirects so that all requests to `/api/*` can be redirected to Netlify Functions. You can set up redirects at `netlify.toml`. We are also going to build our functions with [esbuild](https://docs.netlify.com/configure-builds/file-based-configuration/#functions) so we will set that in the `netlify.toml` as well.

Add the following to the `netlify.toml` file in the root of your project.

```text
[[redirects]]
    from = '/api/*'
    to = '/.netlify/functions/api/:splat'
    status = 200

[functions]
    node_bundler = 'esbuild'
```

Next, you must set up api routes for the media handler.

Install the following dependencies.

```bash
yarn add serverless-http express @tinacms/auth next-tinacms-<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>
```

Make a new file called `netlify/functions/api/api.js` and add the following code.

> Note: the file path could be different if you are using a different [functions directory](https://docs.netlify.com/configure-builds/file-based-configuration/#functions).

```js
import ServerlessHttp from 'serverless-http'
import express, { Router } from 'express'
import { isAuthorized } from '@tinacms/auth'
import { createMediaHandler } from 'next-tinacms-<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>/dist/handlers'

const app = express()

const router = Router()

const mediaHandler = createMediaHandler({
  // ...
  // See the next section for more details on what goes in the createMediaHandler
  authorized: async (req, _res) => {
    try {
      if (process.env.NODE_ENV == 'development') {
        return true
      }

      const user = await isAuthorized(req)

      return user && user.verified
    } catch (e) {
      console.error(e)
      return false
    }
  },
})

router.get('/cloudinary/media', mediaHandler)

router.post('/cloudinary/media', mediaHandler)

router.delete('/cloudinary/media/:media', (req, res) => {
  req.query.media = ['media', req.params.media]
  return mediaHandler(req, res)
})

app.use('/api/', router)
app.use('/.netlify/functions/api/', router)

export const handler = ServerlessHttp(app)
```

### Option 3) AWS Lambda

If your site is hosted on AWS, you can use [AWS Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/) to host your media handler. The following example
uses the S3 media handler, but you can use any media handler.

#### Prerequisites

`npm install express @vendia/serverless-express @tinacms/auth body-parser`

#### Lambda Function

1. To connect TinaCMS endpoints to AWS services, you'll need to create a Lambda Function in Node 14.x. Here's the code you'll need:

```ts
// index.ts
import express, { Router } from 'express'
import serverlessExpress from '@vendia/serverless-express'
import { isAuthorized } from '@tinacms/auth'
import { createMediaHandler } from 'next-tinacms-s3/dist/handlers'
import bodyParser from 'body-parser'

// Configure TinaCMS
const mediaHandler = createMediaHandler({
  config: {
    credentials: {
      accessKeyId: process.env.TINA_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID || '',
      secretAccessKey: process.env.TINA_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY || '',
    },
    region: process.env.TINA_AWS_REGION,
  },
  bucket: process.env.TINA_AWS_BUCKET_NAME || '',
  authorized: async (req, _res): Promise<any> => {
    if (process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development') {
      return true
    }
    try {
      const user = await isAuthorized(req)
      return user && user.verified
    } catch (e) {
      console.error(e)
      return false
    }
  },
})

// Set up the express app and router
const app = express()
const router = Router()
app.use(bodyParser.json())

// Define routes for media handling
router.get('/s3/media', mediaHandler)
router.post('/s3/media', mediaHandler)
router.delete('/s3/media/:media', (req, res) => {
  req.query.media = ['media', req.params.media]
  return mediaHandler(req, res)
})

// Mount the router on the app
app.use('/api/', router)

// Export the handler function
exports.handler = serverlessExpress({ app })
```

1. Be sure to configure the necessary environment variables:

```yaml
TINA_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=******************
TINA_AWS_BUCKET_NAME=******************
TINA_AWS_REGION=********
TINA_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=******************
```

#### API Gateway

1. With the Lambda Function in place, you can proceed to create an API Gateway:
   1. Click on **`Create API`**
   2. Select **REST API**
2. Once the API is created, create a resource under the root path named **`/api`** by going to _Resources_ and selecting _Create Resource_
3. Next, create a nested child path that takes all **`/api`** child paths by creating a resource that uses the **`{proxy+}`** special syntax. Make sure to tick the **_Configure as proxy resource._**

   When setting up the ANY method, pass the Lambda Function that handles the TinaCMS media manager logic.

   Click on **`save`** and allow API Gateway to add permission to the Lambda Function

4. Deploy your API by clicking on the _Action_ dropdown and selecting Deploy API
   1. Select **`[New Stage]`** for the Deployment Stage and type a _Stage name_
   2. Once the API is deployed, you can see the _Invoke URL_ in the _Stages_ menu by clicking on the stage you've created.
5. Configure **Binary Media Types** by going to the _Settings_ Menu and adding the **`/*`** wildcard

#### CloudFront

1. To complete the connection, create a new **Origin** for CloudFront using the _Invocation URL_ of the API Gateway that was just created. Set the Origin Path to the name of the stage where the API was deployed.
2. Create a new **Behaviour** for CloudFront that will intercept requests with the **`/api/s3/media*`** path and use the API Gateway origin that was just created. Make sure to allow the following HTTP methods: **`GET`**, **`HEAD`**, **`OPTIONS`**, **`PUT`**, **`POST`**, **`PATCH`**, and **`DELETE`**.
   1. Under the **Cache key and origin requests** section, select the _Cache policy and origin request policy_ option. For the _Cache policy_, select **CachingDisabled**. For the _Origin request policy_, select **AllViewerExceptHostHeader**.
3. Repeat the above process to create another behaviour that intercepts requests with the **`/api/s3/media/*`** path.

## Register the Media Store on the frontend

Now, you can replace the default repo-based media with the external media store. You can register a media store via the `loadCustomStore` prop.

The `loadCustomStore` prop can be configured within `tina/config` file.

```diff
// tina/config.{ts,js,jsx}

// ...

export default defineConfig({
    // ...
    media: {
-      tina: {
-        publicFolder: "",
-        mediaRoot: ""
-      },
+      loadCustomStore: async () => {
+        const pack = await import("next-tinacms-<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE_NAME>");
+        return pack.TinaCloud<YOUR_MEDIA_STORE>;
+      },
    }
})
```

> Make sure you commit your changes to the config and [`tina-lock.json`](/docs/tina-folder/overview/#tina-lockjson) file at the same time as you push to production on TinaCloud as otherwise your assets will still be prefixed with `https://assets.tina.io` as if you were [still using repo based media](/docs/reference/media/repo-based/)

Now you can manage external media store inside TinaCMS. To learn more about each media store in detail, please refer to the next sections.
