content/docs/reference/fields.md, before:

---
title: Fields
id: fields
last_edited: '2022-06-15T15:51:56.737Z'
next: /docs/reference/templates
prev: /docs/reference/collections
---

Fields define the shape of the content and the user input. There are [many types of fields](/docs/reference/types) each with its own input and type.

Although some fields have more properties here is a list of common ones that are used.

## Definition

| Property       | Description                                                                                                                                                                             |
| -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`         | The name of the field                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `type`         | The [type of the field](/docs/reference/types/) to be used                                                                                                                              |
| `label`        | A human friendly label that will be displayed to the user (_optional_, defaults to `name`)                                                                                              |
| `required`     | If `true`, the collection cannot be saved without this field present (_optional_, defaults to `false`)                                                                                  |
| `isTitle`      | Denote a field as the title of a collection. [See below for more details](#istitle) (_optional_, defaults to `false`)                                                                   |
| `isBody`       | If `true` this field will be used as the body of the document. [See below for more details](#isbody) (_optional_, defaults to `false`)                                                  |
| `ui`           | Used to extend the user interface of the field and the field behaver. See [extending tina section](/docs/extending-tina/overview/#customizing-fields) for more information (_optional_) |
| `ui.list`      | This can be used to make any field into a list of that type (_optional_)                                                                                                                |
| `ui.min`       | If `{ list: true }` can provide a minimum amount of items (_optional_)                                                                                                                  |
| `ui.max`       | If `{ list: true }` can provide a maximin amount of items (_optional_)                                                                                                                  |
| `ui.component` | Used for [custom field components](/docs/extending-tina/custom-field-components)                                                                                                        |
| `ui.validate`  | Used for [custom field validation](/docs/extending-tina/validation/)                                                                                                                    |

## `isTitle`

`isTitle` can be used to denote which field represents the title of the document. The field set with `isTitle=true` is what is displayed in the CMS list view page.

Make sure the following is true when using `isTitle`

- It is a top-level field (it is defined in `collections.fields` or `collections.templates.fields`)
- It is only used once per collection
- `required` is set to true

### Example of `isTitle`

```ts
export default defineConfig({
  //...
  schema: {
    collections: [
      {
        name: 'posts',
        label: 'Blog Posts',
        path: 'content/posts',
        format: 'mdx',
        fields: [
          {
            type: 'string',
            label: 'Title',
            name: 'title',
            isTitle: true,
            required: true,
          },
          // ... other fields
        ],
      },
    ],
  },
})
```

## `isBody`

`isBody` can be used for `"mdx"`, `"markdown"`, and `"md"` formats. The field used for `isBody = true` must have type `string` or `rich-text`. When `isBody` is true it will save that field to the body of the document.

### Example of `isBody`

```ts
export default defineConfig({
  //...
  schema: {
    collections: [
      {
        name: 'posts',
        label: 'Blog Posts',
        path: 'content/posts',
        format: 'mdx',
        fields: [
          {
            type: 'rich-text',
            label: 'Body of post',
            name: 'body',
            isBody: true,
          },
          //... Other fields
        ],
      },
    ],
  },
})
```

Commit message:

docs: add docs for name override

content/docs/reference/fields.md, after:

---
title: Fields
id: fields
last_edited: '2022-06-15T15:51:56.737Z'
next: /docs/reference/templates
prev: /docs/reference/collections
---

Fields define the shape of the content and the user input. There are [many types of fields](/docs/reference/types) each with its own input and type.

Although some fields have more properties here is a list of common ones that are used.

## Definition

| Property       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`         | The name of the field                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `type`         | The [type of the field](/docs/reference/types/) to be used                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `label`        | A human friendly label that will be displayed to the user (_optional_, defaults to `name`)                                                                                                                                        |
| `required`     | If `true`, the collection cannot be saved without this field present (_optional_, defaults to `false`)                                                                                                                            |
| `isTitle`      | Denote a field as the title of a collection. [See below for more details](#istitle) (_optional_, defaults to `false`)                                                                                                             |
| `isBody`       | If `true` this field will be used as the body of the document. [See below for more details](#isbody) (_optional_, defaults to `false`)                                                                                            |
| `nameOverride` | An optional property to allow exporting a field with a special character, that wouldn't be supported by the `name` property. E.g: `{ name: 'custom_id', nameOverride: 'id' }` or `{ name: 'my_field', nameOverride: 'my-field' }` |
| `ui`           | Used to extend the user interface of the field and the field behaver. See [extending tina section](/docs/extending-tina/overview/#customizing-fields) for more information (_optional_)                                           |
| `ui.list`      | This can be used to make any field into a list of that type (_optional_)                                                                                                                                                          |
| `ui.min`       | If `{ list: true }` can provide a minimum amount of items (_optional_)                                                                                                                                                            |
| `ui.max`       | If `{ list: true }` can provide a maximin amount of items (_optional_)                                                                                                                                                            |
| `ui.component` | Used for [custom field components](/docs/extending-tina/custom-field-components)                                                                                                                                                  |
| `ui.validate`  | Used for [custom field validation](/docs/extending-tina/validation/)                                                                                                                                                              |

## `isTitle`

`isTitle` can be used to denote which field represents the title of the document. The field set with `isTitle=true` is what is displayed in the CMS list view page.

Make sure the following is true when using `isTitle`

- It is a top-level field (it is defined in `collections.fields` or `collections.templates.fields`)
- It is only used once per collection
- `required` is set to true

### Example of `isTitle`

```ts
export default defineConfig({
  //...
  schema: {
    collections: [
      {
        name: 'posts',
        label: 'Blog Posts',
        path: 'content/posts',
        format: 'mdx',
        fields: [
          {
            type: 'string',
            label: 'Title',
            name: 'title',
            isTitle: true,
            required: true,
          },
          // ... other fields
        ],
      },
    ],
  },
})
```

## `isBody`

`isBody` can be used for `"mdx"`, `"markdown"`, and `"md"` formats. The field used for `isBody = true` must have type `string` or `rich-text`. When `isBody` is true it will save that field to the body of the document.

### Example of `isBody`

```ts
export default defineConfig({
  //...
  schema: {
    collections: [
      {
        name: 'posts',
        label: 'Blog Posts',
        path: 'content/posts',
        format: 'mdx',
        fields: [
          {
            type: 'rich-text',
            label: 'Body of post',
            name: 'body',
            isBody: true,
          },
          //... Other fields
        ],
      },
    ],
  },
})
```
