content/blog/tina-1-0-announcement.mdx, before:

---
title: Tina v1.0 is live!
date: '2022-11-08T04:00:00.000Z'
last_edited: '2022-11-07T04:00:00.000Z'
author: James O'Halloran
---

We're excited to announce that TinaCMS has gone 1.0 and is coming out of beta!

TinaCMS was announced over 3 years ago, and has matured greatly over that time.

In the early days of TinaCMS, there was a high bar for getting started. TinaCMS is now easier than ever to setup. With our [recent changes](https://tina.io/blog/upgrading-to-iframe/), TinaCMS now works with all frameworks, such as Next.js, Remix, Astro, Hugo, 11ty, and more!

TinaCMS's 1.0 release also means that we can now release under [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/), so that breaking changes will be easier to manage.

## Getting Started with TinaCMS

To try a Tina starter:

```bash
npx create-tina-app@latest
```

For existing sites, initialize TinaCMS with:

```bash
npx @tinacms/cli@latest init
```

You can check out the "getting started" docs for more info

> For existing Tina sites looking to migrate to the latest iframe-based changes, [see our migration doc here](https://tina.io/blog/upgrading-to-iframe/)

## New pricing in effect

Tina Cloud's new pricing will go into effect now that Tina is out of Beta. For organizations that were created during the beta phase, pricing will go into effect on December 1st.
![Tina Launch Pricing](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1667564867/tina-io/blog/TinaCMS_pricing_1.png)

If you have any questions about out pricing, [Please contact us](mailto:support@tina.io)

## A Fresh coat of paint

TinaCMS's landing page also got a fresh new look along with this release.

![Tina Launch Pricing](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1667565910/tina-io/blog/tinaio-homepage.png)

Check it out at [tina.io](https://tina.io)

## Acknowledgements

This release couldn't have been possible without the help of all our contributors, and our community members. With over 100 contributors and 9400 commits, its truly been a massive team/community effort to this milestone. Thank you all for helping shape TinaCMS into what it is today, and for believing in our vision of bridging the gap between developers & editors.

Commit message:

🗞️ Blog Maintenance  – Marking Development Plan Mentions in Guides (#2015)
* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* TinaCMS content update

* Update content/blog/evolution-of-inline-editing.mdx

---------

Co-authored-by: tina-cloud-app[bot] <58178390+tina-cloud-app[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Brady Stroud [SSW] <bradystroud@ssw.com.au>

content/blog/tina-1-0-announcement.mdx, after:

---
title: Tina v1.0 is live!
date: '2022-11-08T04:00:00.000Z'
last_edited: '2022-11-07T04:00:00.000Z'
author: James O'Halloran
---

We're excited to announce that TinaCMS has gone 1.0 and is coming out of beta!

TinaCMS was announced over 3 years ago, and has matured greatly over that time.

In the early days of TinaCMS, there was a high bar for getting started. TinaCMS is now easier than ever to setup. With our [recent changes](https://tina.io/blog/upgrading-to-iframe/), TinaCMS now works with all frameworks, such as Next.js, Remix, Astro, Hugo, 11ty, and more!

TinaCMS's 1.0 release also means that we can now release under [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/), so that breaking changes will be easier to manage.

## Getting Started with TinaCMS

To try a Tina starter:

```bash
npx create-tina-app@latest
```

For existing sites, initialize TinaCMS with:

```bash
npx @tinacms/cli@latest init
```

You can check out the "getting started" docs for more info

> For existing Tina sites looking to migrate to the latest iframe-based changes, [see our migration doc here](https://tina.io/blog/upgrading-to-iframe/)

## New pricing in effect

Tina Cloud's new pricing will go into effect now that Tina is out of Beta. For organizations that were created during the beta phase, pricing will go into effect on December 1st.
![Tina Launch Pricing](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1667564867/tina-io/blog/TinaCMS_pricing_1.png)

> Please see the [pricing page](https://tina.io/pricing/ "pricing") for up to date TinaCloud rates

## A Fresh coat of paint

TinaCMS's landing page also got a fresh new look along with this release.

![Tina Launch Pricing](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1667565910/tina-io/blog/tinaio-homepage.png)

Check it out at [tina.io](https://tina.io)

## Acknowledgements

This release couldn't have been possible without the help of all our contributors, and our community members. With over 100 contributors and 9400 commits, its truly been a massive team/community effort to this milestone. Thank you all for helping shape TinaCMS into what it is today, and for believing in our vision of bridging the gap between developers & editors.
