content/blog/TinaCMS-Version-21.mdx, before:

---
title: TinaCMS Version 2.1
date: '2024-07-24T14:00:00.000Z'
last_edited: '2024-07-24T14:00:00.000Z'
author: Jack Pettit
---

We are excited to announce the release of `tinacms@2.1.0` and `@tinacms/cli@1.5.51`!

### What's New:

1. **Removed Deprecated Hook**
   * A deprecated hook, which was part of legacy internal systems, has now been fully removed. This change does not affect the commonly used `useTina` hook.
2. **Next.js Version Upgrade**
   * We've upgraded the Next.js version in TinaCMS packages from 12 to 14, along with several other dependency updates to ensure compatibility and improved performance.
3. **PNPM Support for `create-tina-app`**
   * You can now use PNPM as an option when creating a Tina app, offering more flexibility and efficiency in your package management.
4. **React 18.3.1 Integration**
   * TinaCMS has been upgraded to use React 18.3.1, bringing you the latest features and improvements from React.
5. **New `toolbarOverride` Option for Rich Text Fields**
   * A new `toolbarOverride` option has been added to rich text fields, giving you greater control over your editor toolbar configurations. Checkout the [docs](/docs/reference/types/rich-text/) for more info

![](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1721881770/blog-media/2.1/ray-so-export_3_x7baul.png)


![](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1721881650/blog-media/2.1/SCR-20240725-mvmu_gfqxxv.png)


6. **Enhanced Media Uploads with Cloudinary Support**
   * The default media upload types now include support for Cloudinary files, allowing you to upload videos and other media directly through the media manager.

![](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1721880641/blog-media/2.1/351543729-f4b352d6-83c9-4f13-af38-8faa0e41f993_q8kuz7.png)

7. **Mobile Resolution Support**
   * TinaCMS now supports various screen sizes and mobile devices, including iOS and Android, providing a seamless editing experience across all your devices.

We hope you enjoy these new features and improvements. Thank you for your continued support and feedback!


Best,

The TinaCMS Team

Commit message:

side by side image and code snippet

content/blog/TinaCMS-Version-21.mdx, after:

---
title: TinaCMS Version 2.1
date: '2024-07-24T14:00:00.000Z'
last_edited: '2024-07-24T14:00:00.000Z'
author: Jack Pettit
---

We are excited to announce the release of `tinacms@2.1.0` and `@tinacms/cli@1.5.51`!

### What's New:

1. **Removed Deprecated Hook**
   * A deprecated hook, which was part of legacy internal systems, has now been fully removed. This change does not affect the commonly used `useTina` hook.
2. **Next.js Version Upgrade**
   * We've upgraded the Next.js version in TinaCMS packages from 12 to 14, along with several other dependency updates to ensure compatibility and improved performance.
3. **PNPM Support for `create-tina-app`**
   * You can now use PNPM as an option when creating a Tina app, offering more flexibility and efficiency in your package management.
4. **React 18.3.1 Integration**
   * TinaCMS has been upgraded to use React 18.3.1, bringing you the latest features and improvements from React.
5. **New `toolbarOverride` Option for Rich Text Fields**
   * A new `toolbarOverride` option has been added to rich text fields, giving you greater control over your editor toolbar configurations. Checkout the [docs](/docs/reference/types/rich-text/) for more info

:::code-snippet{open=true url="/img/code-snippets/rich-text-toolbar-override.png"}

### Toolbar Override

Change what you want to display and the order it is displayed in the editor

```ts
{
  label: "Body",
  name: "body",
  isBody: true,
  type: "rich-text",
  toolbarOverride: ["heading", "bold", "italic"],
}
```

:::

6. **Enhanced Media Uploads with Cloudinary Support**
   * The default media upload types now include support for Cloudinary files, allowing you to upload videos and other media directly through the media manager.

![](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1721880641/blog-media/2.1/351543729-f4b352d6-83c9-4f13-af38-8faa0e41f993_q8kuz7.png)

7. **Mobile Resolution Support**
   * TinaCMS now supports various screen sizes and mobile devices, including iOS and Android, providing a seamless editing experience across all your devices.

We hope you enjoy these new features and improvements. Thank you for your continued support and feedback!


Best,

The TinaCMS Team
