content/blog/upgrading-to-iframe.md, before:

---
title: Upgrading to 0.69.16 (with iframe-based previews)
date: '2022-10-11T04:00:00.000Z'
last_edited: '2022-10-11T04:00:00.000Z'
author: James O'Halloran
---

`tinacms@0.69.16` is a considerable rework to how TinaCMS is run, and how it renders previews.

## Background

Previously, Tina's setup required you to wrap your site in a `TinaProvider` component. Tina would only be run from within your site.

In `0.69.16`, we have introduced a "standalone tinacms build process", which instead runs your site's preview in sandboxed iframe.

This offers several benefits including:

- Removing styling conflicts between Tina, and your site.
- A consistent framework-agnostic implementation.
- Clearer and simpler code-splitting, for smaller bundle sizes on your live-site.

## Upgrading

### Upgrade tinacms

Make sure you're using the latest `tinacms` & `@tinacms/cli` packages.

```
yarn upgrade tinacms @tinacms/cli
```

### Use new useTina hooks

Switch any instance of the `useTina` hook to come from `tinacms/dist/react`

```diff
- import { useTina } from "tinacms/dist/edit-state";
+ import { useTina } from "tinacms/dist/react";
```

### Remove the Tina wraper from your \_app.tsx

```diff
  return (
-    <TinaProvider>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
-    </TinaProvider>
  );
```

> This wrapper is no longer needed, since the Tina wrapper is instead run on its own process outside of the iframe.

### Remove pages/admin

Your `pages/admin` file can now be deleted.

> The new admin page will be generated by Tina's build process.

### Update your schema.ts file

Rename your `schema.{ts,tsx,js,jsx}` file to `config.{ts,tsx,js,jsx}`

Replace `defineSchema` with `defineConfig`. This contains both your schema, and your build config.

```diff
- const schema = defineSchema({
+ const config = defineConfig({
    // ...
}

- export const tinaConfig = defineConfig({
-   client,
-   schema,
- });


- export default schema;
+ export default config;
```

> Only one export is needed from our `config.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}` file. Previously, the config & schema were both exported separately.

### Access the new admin page. (NextJS only)

The admin is currently generated & accessible at `/admin/index.html`.

If you want things to work with just `/admin` you'll need to update your `next.config.js` to handle the redirect. This

```js
//next.config.js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/admin',
        destination: '/admin/index.html',
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

And that should be it! If you have any questions about migration, check out our [ community channels](/community/) for assistance.

Commit message:

add snippet on components directory

content/blog/upgrading-to-iframe.md, after:

---
title: Upgrading to 0.69.16 (with iframe-based previews)
date: '2022-10-11T04:00:00.000Z'
last_edited: '2022-10-11T04:00:00.000Z'
author: James O'Halloran
---

`tinacms@0.69.16` is a considerable rework to how TinaCMS is run, and how it renders previews.

## Background

Previously, Tina's setup required you to wrap your site in a `TinaProvider` component. Tina would only be run from within your site.

In `0.69.16`, we have introduced a "standalone tinacms build process", which instead runs your site's preview in sandboxed iframe.

This offers several benefits including:

- Removing styling conflicts between Tina, and your site.
- A consistent framework-agnostic implementation.
- Clearer and simpler code-splitting, for smaller bundle sizes on your live-site.

## Upgrading

### Upgrade tinacms

Make sure you're using the latest `tinacms` & `@tinacms/cli` packages.

```
yarn upgrade tinacms @tinacms/cli
```

### Use new useTina hooks

Switch any instance of the `useTina` hook to come from `tinacms/dist/react`

```diff
- import { useTina } from "tinacms/dist/edit-state";
+ import { useTina } from "tinacms/dist/react";
```

### Remove the Tina wraper from your \_app.tsx

```diff
  return (
-    <TinaProvider>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
-    </TinaProvider>
  );
```

You can also now delete the entire `.tina/components` directory.

> This wrapper is no longer needed, since the Tina wrapper is instead run on its own process outside of the iframe.

### Remove pages/admin

Your `pages/admin` file can now be deleted.

> The new admin page will be generated by Tina's build process.

### Update your schema.ts file

Rename your `schema.{ts,tsx,js,jsx}` file to `config.{ts,tsx,js,jsx}`

Replace `defineSchema` with `defineConfig`. This contains both your schema, and your build config.

```diff
- const schema = defineSchema({
+ const config = defineConfig({
    // ...
}

- export const tinaConfig = defineConfig({
-   client,
-   schema,
- });


- export default schema;
+ export default config;
```

> Only one export is needed from our `config.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}` file. Previously, the config & schema were both exported separately.

### Access the new admin page. (NextJS only)

The admin is currently generated & accessible at `/admin/index.html`.

If you want things to work with just `/admin` you'll need to update your `next.config.js` to handle the redirect. This

```js
//next.config.js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/admin',
        destination: '/admin/index.html',
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

And that should be it! If you have any questions about migration, check out our [ community channels](/community/) for assistance.
