content/docs/tina-cloud/api-versioning.mdx, before:

---
title: GraphQL API Versioning
prev: /docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/organizations
next: /docs/self-hosted/overview
---

Tina is still evolving. In order to support a range of clients using different versions of Tina, Tina's [Content Api](../#content-api) leverages version metadata in your site's generated schema to select the appropriate version of the GraphQL API in Tina Cloud. Starting with version 0.59.3, this version metadata will be compiled into your site's schema json.

## What to know

### Backwards compatibility for previous versions

Versions prior to 0.59.3 will continue to work as expected

### Minor version compatibility

Prior to the 1.0.0 release, there may be breaking changes between *minor* versions. For a given minor version, Tina Cloud will have the latest patch version of the GraphQL API, depending on what has been compiled into your site's schema. Users should expect compatibility between patch versions.

For example:

| Local Version | Tina Cloud Version |
| ------------- | ------------------ |
| 0.59.1        | 0.59.3             |
| 0.59.2        | 0.59.3             |
| 0.59.3        | 0.59.3             |
| 0.60.0        | 0.60.1             |
| 0.60.1        | 0.60.1             |

### What if my local version of Tina is different than what is in GitHub?

If you are running Tina locally with Tina Cloud, it is possible to upgrade the GraphQL API to a different version than what is compiled into the schema and committed to GitHub. Since Tina Cloud uses the version in GitHub to determine what version of the GraphQL API to serve, you may encounter incompatibilities. To resolve the issue, commit and changes to your Tina schema directory (`tina`) whenever you upgrade Tina and make sure these changes are pushed to GitHub whenever you are working locally.

Commit message:

✨ Tina Live Editing Docs (#1963)
* Add Live Editing + Fix ToC for new data struc

* fixed default route /docs to use all new work rom [..slug].tsx

* Fix product-tour.tsx, make SEO description use new-data

* Fixing Most of the docs and routing

* Update some of the docs to get rid of HTML

* majority of mdx pages

* added open tab mdx component

* finish docs content changes

* add todo

* Remove all references to 'next' and 'prev' as they are old navigation properties

* change from 'nextP' to 'Next' and 'prev' to 'Previous'

* Guides replaced in Docs

* change toc-doc.json for new guides pages

* wip getAllDocs query

* fix route double //

* Remove getDocProps legacy data sourcing method

* Remove oldToc (and replace with newToc) now that guides are apart of docs

* add TODO

* Remove legacy getter method from use

* addressing comments

* Next -> next

* title misdisplay

* push changes for setup-overview removing old legacy items

* warning callout re-added

* remove old html

* Changed from 'MinimizeText' to 'Summary'

* reind

* upd tina lock

* Changed order of next ref

* unescaped js

content/docs/tina-cloud/api-versioning.mdx, after:

---
title: GraphQL API Versioning
previous: content/docs/tina-cloud/deployment-options/github-pages.mdx
---

Tina is still evolving. In order to support a range of clients using different versions of Tina, Tina's [Content Api](../#content-api) leverages version metadata in your site's generated schema to select the appropriate version of the GraphQL API in Tina Cloud. Starting with version 0.59.3, this version metadata will be compiled into your site's schema json.

## What to know

### Backwards compatibility for previous versions

Versions prior to 0.59.3 will continue to work as expected

### Minor version compatibility

Prior to the 1.0.0 release, there may be breaking changes between _minor_ versions. For a given minor version, Tina Cloud will have the latest patch version of the GraphQL API, depending on what has been compiled into your site's schema. Users should expect compatibility between patch versions.

For example:

| Local Version | Tina Cloud Version |
| ------------- | ------------------ |
| 0.59.1        | 0.59.3             |
| 0.59.2        | 0.59.3             |
| 0.59.3        | 0.59.3             |
| 0.60.0        | 0.60.1             |
| 0.60.1        | 0.60.1             |

### What if my local version of Tina is different than what is in GitHub?

If you are running Tina locally with Tina Cloud, it is possible to upgrade the GraphQL API to a different version than what is compiled into the schema and committed to GitHub. Since Tina Cloud uses the version in GitHub to determine what version of the GraphQL API to serve, you may encounter incompatibilities. To resolve the issue, commit and changes to your Tina schema directory (`tina`) whenever you upgrade Tina and make sure these changes are pushed to GitHub whenever you are working locally.
