---
title: 2020-05-04 Release Notes
date: '2020-05-04T11:36:49-03:00'
author: Nolan Phillips
---

###

## What's New?

### **Guides:** Open Authoring with Next.js + GitHub

Friday afternoon we finally released our [**Open Authoring with Next.js and GitHub **](https://tinacms.org/guides/nextjs/github/initial-setup)guide! This guide lets you setup the same editing experience we have on tinacms.org but on your own website. Checkout the new Guides section to learn more.

### **Podcast:** Software Engineering Daily

A few weeks ago Scott, Jordan, and myself were on [Software Engineering Daily](https://tinacms.org/blog/software-engineering-daily-podcast-tinacms) to talk about content management and how it's changing in the JAMstack.

### Visit the Forum!

After some deliberation we decided to shutdown our Slack group and put all our efforts into the [Community Forum](http://community.tinacms.org)! Head on over if you have any questions about Tina or would like to show off what you've been working on.

### Features

**react-tinacms-github**

- User's who already have access to the repo do not need to edit from origin
- GitHub Media Store
- Branch management. Create and switch-between branches.

### Bug Fixes

**gatsby-tinacms-remark** and **gatsby-tinacms-json**

- Fixed an issue with `useRemarkForm` that prevented Gatsby sites using `InlineForm` from building

### Refactoring

**react-tinacms-editor**

- Some refactoring is being done to the packages structure. This is in preparation for some upcoming work to make the wysiwyg more pluggable!

### Now for a Cool Down!

Taking a page from Basecamp's book ([literally](https://basecamp.com/shapeup/2.2-chapter-08#cool-down)) the TinaCMS core team is spending the next couple weeks in cool-down. We've been focused purely on Open Authoring for the last month or two and now we're taking a couple weeks to step back, take a breather, and enjoy some unplanned days. On the 14th we're going to choose our project for the next couple months.

Stay tuned!

## Contributors

Thanks to everyone for contributing!

| # Commits | Name              |
| --------- | ----------------- |
| 27        | Nolan Phillips    |
| 13        | Scott Byrne       |
| 6         | Kendall Strautman |
| 4         | Joel Huggett      |
| 3         | jpuri             |

## GitHub Milestones

Checkout the [GitHub Milestone](https://github.com/tinacms/tinacms/milestone/21?closed=1) for all the details on this weeks release!
