content/docs/index.md, before:

---
title: Tina Docs
id: introduction
last_edited: '2021-07-27T15:51:56.737Z'
---

**Tina** contains multiple tools and applications designed to improve collaboration between **content writers** and **developers** who work on web content. Under the umbrella of Tina, there are two main components:

- **Tina Cloud**, a hosted service designed to make Git-based content management more powerful and accessible for cross-functional teams.
- The **TinaCMS toolkit**, a suite of packages that enable developers to quickly create a custom visual editing experience for content writers.

## Tina Cloud

**Tina Cloud** is a hosted service purpose built for integration with the TinaCMS Toolkit. Tina Cloud makes it possible for entire content teams to take advantage of a Git-based workflow, regardless of whether they write code or have GitHub accounts. Additionally, Tina Cloud exposes a GraphQL API for your site's file-based content, giving developers a more powerful interface for querying data and reconciling relationships.

[Tina Cloud Dashboard](/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/) - The Tina Cloud Dashboard is the interface for managing the administrative aspects of your content management. The dashboard allows you to create apps, and setup your users.

<div class="callout">
<img className="learnImage" src="../img/tina-laptop.png" alt="" />
<div>
<h3>Ready to get started?</h3>
<p>Get a website running with Tina Cloud in no time!</P>
<a href="/guides/tina-cloud/starter/overview/" class="calloutButton">Quick Start Guide <svg stroke="currentColor" fill="currentColor" stroke-width="0" viewBox="0 0 448 512" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><path d="M190.5 66.9l22.2-22.2c9.4-9.4 24.6-9.4 33.9 0L441 239c9.4 9.4 9.4 24.6 0 33.9L246.6 467.3c-9.4 9.4-24.6 9.4-33.9 0l-22.2-22.2c-9.5-9.5-9.3-25 .4-34.3L311.4 296H24c-13.3 0-24-10.7-24-24v-32c0-13.3 10.7-24 24-24h287.4L190.9 101.2c-9.8-9.3-10-24.8-.4-34.3z"></path></svg></a>
</div>
</div>

## TinaCMS Toolkit

The **TinaCMS Toolkit** empowers developers to build a visual editing experience directly on their sites. By creating a custom editing experience with Tina instead of opting for a conventional CMS, developers can give their teams a contextual, intuitive editing experience without sacrificing code control.

[TinaCMS CLI](/docs/cli/) - The TinaCMS CLI can be used to set up your project with TinaCMS schema configuration, and run a local version of the TinaCMS API (using your file system's content).

[Next.js APIs](/docs/tinacms-context/) - The Next.js APIs allow you to easily retrieve, secure and edit your content using the content-api.

[Content Mangement](/docs/content-management/) - Tina's content management APIs are designed to give you an easy, flexible way to control how content is sourced, modified, and persisted.

[User Interface](/docs/user-interface/) - Tina's User Interface allows developers to dictate the way content is navigated and edited for content creators.

[Extending Tina](/docs/extending-tina/) - Tina is open source giving you the ability to extend the functionality including: events, plugins, widgets.

## Guides

Our **Guides** section contains various step-by-step guides to show you how to use Tina. We believe guides are opportunities for learning, and we will introduce you you to certain APIs, configurations, or workflows and provide rudimentary examples for your reference.

[View the Guides](/guides)

Commit message:

Docs reorg (#1052)
* Create root reference and basic-features heading

* split up NextJS reference doc

* unnest NextJS reference docs

* Add setup page

* tweak setup doc

* add manual setup blurb

* add testing section to setup doc

* Remove start guide from start of nav

* ungroup tinacms & tinacms/cli reference docs

* split out customization from contextual editing doc

* move graphql API to CLI docs

* Move advanced content to extending-tina doc

* remove alpha migration from nav

* add redirect to deleted page

* Add doc for connect app to site

* Redirect from reference page

* Add docs overview to nav bar

* Change default link of Introduction section

* Remove old links from index

* fix typo

* Add next links to concept docs

* move up going to production in nav

* fix starter url in setup

* Remove duplicate setup paragraph

* fix bad redirects

* defocus tinacloud/tinacms in index page

content/docs/index.md, after:

---
title: Tina Docs
id: introduction
last_edited: '2021-07-27T15:51:56.737Z'
next: /docs/setup-overview
---

**Tina** contains multiple tools and applications designed to improve collaboration between **content writers** and **developers** who work on web content.

- Our **TinaCMS JS library**, is an open source library that enables developers to add a custom visual editing experience directly into their site.
- Our **Tina Cloud** hosted service allows cross-functional teams to collaborate on the site's content in a git-based worflow (regardless of whether they write code or have GitHub accounts).

<div class="callout">
<img className="learnImage" src="../img/tina-laptop.png" alt="" />
<div>
<h3>Ready to get started?</h3>
<p>Get a website running with Tina Cloud in no time!</P>
<a href="/guides/tina-cloud/starter/overview/" class="calloutButton">Quick Start Guide <svg stroke="currentColor" fill="currentColor" stroke-width="0" viewBox="0 0 448 512" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><path d="M190.5 66.9l22.2-22.2c9.4-9.4 24.6-9.4 33.9 0L441 239c9.4 9.4 9.4 24.6 0 33.9L246.6 467.3c-9.4 9.4-24.6 9.4-33.9 0l-22.2-22.2c-9.5-9.5-9.3-25 .4-34.3L311.4 296H24c-13.3 0-24-10.7-24-24v-32c0-13.3 10.7-24 24-24h287.4L190.9 101.2c-9.8-9.3-10-24.8-.4-34.3z"></path></svg></a>
</div>
</div>

## Guides

Our **Guides** section contains various step-by-step guides to show you how to use Tina. We believe guides are opportunities for learning, and we will introduce you you to certain APIs, configurations, or workflows and provide rudimentary examples for your reference.

[View the Guides](/guides)
