content/docs/using-tina-editor.mdx, before:

---
id: /docs/using-tina-editor/
title: Using the Tina Editor
last_edited: '2022-01-09T00:00:00.000Z'
next: /docs/schema
---

Tina is very flexible & extendable, so any Tina site may have a unique experience. As an introduction, we'll cover the out-of-the-box experience that most of our starters implement.  

## Entering the CMS

When tina is initialized it creates a static build of your site, and a `/admin` route that allows you to edit your site's content. The static build is located at `<PublicFolder>/admin/index.html`.

When this page is visited in the browser, the Tina CMS is loaded and the user is prompted to log in.

![Tina Login Page](/img/tina-login.png)

After successfully logging in, the user will arrive at the CMS.

## Using the CMS

![Tina Editor Dashboard](/img/tina-dashboard.png)

Depending on how Tina is configured, one or more Collections will appear in the Global Navigation. Clicking on a Collection will take the user to a Document List for that Collection.

![Tina Editor List Page](/img/tina-list-page.png)

The table here lists all documents for the chosen Collection. This page also allows the user to create a new document or a new folder see below.

![](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1718664908/add-folder-tinacms_c8pxte.png)\
Can create folders to manage content.

If **contextual-editing** has been configured, clicking on a document will navigate the user to that document's preview with the Sidebar open and ready for editing.

![Tina Editor Visual Editing](/img/tina-contextual-editing.png)

However, if **contextual-editing** is not configured or simply not available for a particular Collection, clicking on a document will present the user with the basic editor.

![Tina Editor Standard Editing](/img/tina-standard-editing.png)

> Note: You can learn more about how to set up **contextual-editing** for your users [here](/docs/tinacms-context).

Once saved, the changes to the document will be stored against the files.

## What's Next?

There's plenty to do to customize your editing experience. We suggest:

* Checking out [our concept docs](/docs/schema/), to learn how Tina powers the starters under the hood
* Learn how [Tina can be extended](/docs/advanced/extending-tina/) to create new field components
* Make your site [editable with Tina on production](/docs/tina-cloud/)

Commit message:

✨ Tina Live Editing Docs (#1963)
* Add Live Editing + Fix ToC for new data struc

* fixed default route /docs to use all new work rom [..slug].tsx

* Fix product-tour.tsx, make SEO description use new-data

* Fixing Most of the docs and routing

* Update some of the docs to get rid of HTML

* majority of mdx pages

* added open tab mdx component

* finish docs content changes

* add todo

* Remove all references to 'next' and 'prev' as they are old navigation properties

* change from 'nextP' to 'Next' and 'prev' to 'Previous'

* Guides replaced in Docs

* change toc-doc.json for new guides pages

* wip getAllDocs query

* fix route double //

* Remove getDocProps legacy data sourcing method

* Remove oldToc (and replace with newToc) now that guides are apart of docs

* add TODO

* Remove legacy getter method from use

* addressing comments

* Next -> next

* title misdisplay

* push changes for setup-overview removing old legacy items

* warning callout re-added

* remove old html

* Changed from 'MinimizeText' to 'Summary'

* reind

* upd tina lock

* Changed order of next ref

* unescaped js

content/docs/using-tina-editor.mdx, after:

---
id: /docs/using-tina-editor/

title: Using the Tina Editor
last_edited: '2022-01-09T00:00:00.000Z'
previous: content/docs/frameworks/other.mdx
---

Tina is very flexible & extendable, so any Tina site may have a unique experience. As an introduction, we'll cover the out-of-the-box experience that most of our starters implement.

## Entering the CMS

When tina is initialized it creates a static build of your site, and a `/admin` route that allows you to edit your site's content. The static build is located at `<PublicFolder>/admin/index.html`.

When this page is visited in the browser, the Tina CMS is loaded and the user is prompted to log in.

![Tina Login Page](/img/tina-login.png)

After successfully logging in, the user will arrive at the CMS.

## Using the CMS

![Tina Editor Dashboard](/img/tina-dashboard.png)

Depending on how Tina is configured, one or more Collections will appear in the Global Navigation. Clicking on a Collection will take the user to a Document List for that Collection.

![Tina Editor List Page](/img/tina-list-page.png)

The table here lists all documents for the chosen Collection. This page also allows the user to create a new document or a new folder see below.

![](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1718664908/add-folder-tinacms_c8pxte.png)\
Can create folders to manage content.

If **contextual-editing** has been configured, clicking on a document will navigate the user to that document's preview with the Sidebar open and ready for editing.

![Tina Editor Visual Editing](/img/tina-contextual-editing.png)

However, if **contextual-editing** is not configured or simply not available for a particular Collection, clicking on a document will present the user with the basic editor.

![Tina Editor Standard Editing](/img/tina-standard-editing.png)

> Note: You can learn more about how to set up **contextual-editing** for your users [here](/docs/tinacms-context).

Once saved, the changes to the document will be stored against the files.

## What's Next?

There's plenty to do to customize your editing experience. We suggest:

- Checking out [our concept docs](/docs/schema/), to learn how Tina powers the starters under the hood
- Learn how [Tina can be extended](/docs/advanced/extending-tina/) to create new field components
- Make your site [editable with Tina on production](/docs/tina-cloud/)
