content/docs/reference/rich-text-usage/markdown-tables.mdx, before:

---
title: Markdown Tables
last_edited: '2024-09-13T06:04:00.216Z'
next: ''
previous: ''
---

## Usage

<WarningCallout body="This is an experimental feature, and the API is subject to change. Have any thoughts? Let us know in the chat or through one of our community channels. " />

Tables are supported through a custom template which is exported from `tinacms`. To use it, import it and provide it as a `template` for your `rich-text` field:

```ts
import { tinaTableTemplate } from 'tinacms'

{
  type: 'rich-text',
  label: 'Body',
  name: '_body',
  templates: [
    tinaTableTemplate,
  ]
}
```

Render it with the `table` component in `<TinaMarkdown>`. Note that the table cell's `value` is a rich-text element so should be rendered with a nested `<TinaMarkdown>` component:

```tsx
const MyTable = props => <table>
    {props.tableRows?.map((tableRow, i) => (
      <tbody key={i}>
        <tr>
          {tableRow.tableCells?.map((tableCell, j) => (
            <td key={j}>
              <TinaMarkdown content={tableCell.value} />
            </td>
          ))}
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    ))}
  </table>

<TinaMarkdown content={data.page._body} components={{ table: (props) => <MyTable {...props} /> }} />
```

## Showcase

## Caveats

Commit message:

adding known issues section, video and caveats content to the markdown table page and linking github discussions

content/docs/reference/rich-text-usage/markdown-tables.mdx, after:

---
title: Markdown Tables
last_edited: '2024-09-17T05:22:08.027Z'
next: ''
previous: ''
---

## Usage

<WarningCallout body="This is an experimental feature, and the API is subject to change. Have any thoughts? Let us know in the chat or through one of our community channels. " />

Tables are supported through a custom template which is exported from `tinacms`. To use it, import it and provide it as a `template` for your `rich-text` field:

```ts
import { tinaTableTemplate } from 'tinacms'

{
  type: 'rich-text',
  label: 'Body',
  name: '_body',
  templates: [
    tinaTableTemplate,
  ]
}
```

Render it with the `table` component in `<TinaMarkdown>`. Note that the table cell's `value` is a rich-text element so should be rendered with a nested `<TinaMarkdown>` component:

```tsx
const MyTable = props => <table>
    {props.tableRows?.map((tableRow, i) => (
      <tbody key={i}>
        <tr>
          {tableRow.tableCells?.map((tableCell, j) => (
            <td key={j}>
              <TinaMarkdown content={tableCell.value} />
            </td>
          ))}
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    ))}
  </table>

<TinaMarkdown content={data.page._body} components={{ table: (props) => <MyTable {...props} /> }} />
```

## Showcase

![](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1726549733/tina-io/docs/2024-09-13_15-59-11_1_y2elbn.gif)

## Known Issues

The table can only be saved if added with cell data immediately after creation, before leaving the CMS subwindow. This issue only occurs on initial creation of the table.

For further development work on Markdown Tables, engage with the related [GitHub issue](https://github.com/tinacms/tinacms/discussions/4793) or [contribute](https://github.com/tinacms/tinacms).
