---
title: Autogenerated GraphQL Client (Experimental)
last_edited: '2021-11-06T18:00:00.000Z'
next: /docs/editing/overview/
---

{{ WarningCallout text="This is an experimental feature, and the API is subject to change. We don't yet suggest using this for production use cases. Have any thoughts? Let us know in the chat or through the [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/tinacms/tinacms/discussions/2249)!" }}

## Try it out

The generated GraphQL client has two main functionalities,

1. Generates Graphql fragments and queries that are written for you.
2. Generates a Graphql client that can be used server-side (in getStaticProps)

## Using the built-in Graphql Queries

The client comes with several built-in GraphQL queries to allow you to get up and running quickly. However, there is one caveat it **does not resolve references**. Although we plan to support an API to do this in the future, the built-in generated client queries do not resolve references. To resolve a reference you will have to [write your queries](#writing-your-own-gql-queries).

Firstly, you can import a function to get the client from generated folder located in `.tina/__generated/types`.

```ts
import { ExperimentalGetTinaClient } from '../path/to/tinaFolder/.tina/__generated__/types'
```

Then you can use it in `getStaticProps`.

```ts
const client = ExperimentalGetTinaClient()
const tinaProps = await client.post({ relativePath: 'test.md' })

//...

return {
  props: {
    ...tinaProps,
  },
}
```

## Writing your own GQL Queries

First of all, you can import the generated client.

```ts
import { ExperimentalGetTinaClient } from '../path/to/tinaFolder/.tina/__generated__/types'
```

Then you can use the typed client. The types are based on the Graphql queries that you have written. The Graphql queries are written in the `.tina/queries/` folder, and these will be used to generate the client.

Example of `.tina/queries/example.gql`

```gql
query getCollections {
  collections {
    name
  }
}
```

Once the query is added, the client can be used to retrieve the data, for example:

```ts
const client = ExperimentalGetTinaClient()
const data = await client.getCollections()
console.log(data.getCollections)
```

We can take this further and add this to our `example.gql` file:

```gql
query GetAuthorDocument($path: String!) {
  author(relativePath: $path) {
    ... on Author {
      ...AuthorParts
    }
  }
}
```

We are using an `AuthorsParts` Fragment. For each collection, this fragment is generated and updated when the schema is updated. This means you no longer have to update your Graphql query when you update your schema.ts (assuming you want to query for all the fields)
