content/docs/reference/self-hosted/database-adapter/overview.md, before:

---
title: Choosing a Database Adapter
id: /docs/reference/self-hosted/database-adapter/overview
prev: null
next: /docs/reference/self-hosted/database-adapter/vercel-kv
---

## Overview

A database adapter provides an interface between the Tina database and the underlying database implementation. It implements a limited subset of functionality required by a sorted key-value store, which can be provided by almost any database implementation. We currently have database adapters for the following database implementations:

- [Vercel KV](/docs/reference/self-hosted/database-adapter/vercel-kv)
- [MongoDB](/docs/reference/self-hosted/database-adapter/mongodb)

We also plan to support additional database adapters for common databases in the future.

Configuring a database adapter can be done in the `database.{ts,js}` file by passing it to the `createDatabase` function.

```ts
// ...

export isLocal ? createLocalDatabase() : createDatabase({
    // ...
    databaseAdapter: new DatabaseAdapter()
})
```

## createDatabase Function

This is a factory function that creates a new instance of the TinaCMS Database. It takes a [`databaseAdapter`](/docs/reference/self-hosted/database-adapter/overview/) and a [`gitProvider`](/docs/reference/self-hosted/git-provider/overview/).

| Parameter             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `databaseAdapter`     | The [database adapter](/docs/reference/self-hosted/database-adapter/overview) to use. (Required)                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `gitProvider`         | The [git provider](/docs/reference/self-hosted/git-provider/overview) to use. (Required)                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `tinaDirectory`       | The directory used to store tina files. Defaults to `tina` (Optional)                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `bridge`              | The bridge used to index the content to the database adapter. This defaults to the FileSystem. The `bridge` is a more advanced use case if you want to index from a different source other than the filesystem. Please [reach out on Discord](https://discord.gg/zumN63Ybpf) for further help. |
| `indexStatusCallback` | an async function that is called to report the status on the current indexing. (Optional)                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

## createLocalDatabase Function

This is a factory function that creates a database that can be used for local development or [static builds](/docs/cli-overview/#examples).

It uses a local in-memory database adapter and a file-system Git provider that only writes changes to the file-system without committing them.

(_does not take any parameter_)

Commit message:

add namespace to createDatabase ref doc and other misc fixes

content/docs/reference/self-hosted/database-adapter/overview.md, after:

---
title: Choosing a Database Adapter
id: /docs/reference/self-hosted/database-adapter/overview
prev: null
next: /docs/reference/self-hosted/database-adapter/vercel-kv
---

## Overview

A database adapter provides an interface between the Tina database and the underlying database implementation. It implements a limited subset of functionality required by a sorted key-value store, which can be provided by almost any database implementation. We currently have database adapters for the following database implementations:

- [Vercel KV](/docs/reference/self-hosted/database-adapter/vercel-kv)
- [MongoDB](/docs/reference/self-hosted/database-adapter/mongodb)

We also plan to support additional database adapters for common databases in the future.

Configuring a database adapter can be done in the `database.{ts,js}` file by passing it to the `createDatabase` function.

```ts
// ...

export isLocal ? createLocalDatabase() : createDatabase({
    // ...
    databaseAdapter: new DatabaseAdapter()
})
```

## createDatabase Function

This is a factory function that creates a new instance of the TinaCMS Database. It takes a [`databaseAdapter`](/docs/reference/self-hosted/database-adapter/overview/) and a [`gitProvider`](/docs/reference/self-hosted/git-provider/overview/).

| Parameter             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `databaseAdapter`     | The [database adapter](/docs/reference/self-hosted/database-adapter/overview) to use. (Required)                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `gitProvider`         | The [git provider](/docs/reference/self-hosted/git-provider/overview) to use. (Required)                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `tinaDirectory`       | The directory used to store tina files. Defaults to `tina` (Optional)                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `bridge`              | The bridge used to index the content to the database adapter. This defaults to the FileSystem. The `bridge` is a more advanced use case if you want to index from a different source other than the filesystem. Please [reach out on Discord](https://discord.gg/zumN63Ybpf) for further help. |
| `indexStatusCallback` | async function called to report the status of the current indexing operation. (Optional)                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `namespace`           | Specifies the namespace for the current indexed content. If specified, this will usually be an environment variable with the name of the current branch.                                                                                                                                       |

## createLocalDatabase Function

This is a factory function that creates a database that can be used for local development or [static builds](/docs/cli-overview/#examples).

It uses a local in-memory database adapter and a file-system Git provider that only writes changes to the file-system without committing them.

(_does not take any parameter_)
