content/docs/reference/types/rich-text.mdx, before:

---
title: The "rich-text" field
last_edited: '2021-07-27T15:51:56.737Z'
prev: /docs/reference/types/object
next: /docs/tina-folder/overview
---

# `rich-text`

Tina's `rich-text` field leverages MDX so you can embed your own structured blocks. To render
a `rich-text` field with React we recommend the `<TinaMarkdown>` component from `tinacms`. See [usage](#usage)
for details.

```ts
type RichTextField = {
  label: string
  name: string
  type: 'rich-text'
  templates: Template[]
}
```

## Examples

Tina will generate the appropriate component depending on the
configuration provided.

::::code-snippets
:::code-snippet{open=true url="/img/code-snippets/rich-text-1.png"}

### Simple

```ts
{
  label: "Body",
  name: "body",
  isBody: true,
  type: "rich-text",
}
```

:::
:::code-snippet{open=true url="/img/code-snippets/rich-text-3.png"}

### Custom custom templates

```ts
{
  label: "Body",
  name: "body",
  isBody: true,
  type: "rich-text",
  templates: [
    {
      name: "Cta",
      label: "Cta",
      fields: [{
        name: "heading",
        label: "Heading",
        type: "string"
      }
    ]}
  ]
}
```

:::
::::

Given a markdown file like this:

```md
## Hello, world!

This is some text

<Cta heading="Welcome" />
```

Results in the following response from the content API:

<iframe loading="lazy" src="/api/graphiql/?query=%7B%0A%20%20post(relativePath%3A%20%22voteForPedro.json%22)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20body%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D%0A" width="800" height="400" />

## Using `TinaMarkdown`

The `<TinaMarkdown>` component allows you to control how each element
is rendered. You *must* provide a component for each template registered
in the `templates` property of your field definition. Note that you can also
control rendering of built-in elements like `<h1>, <a>, <img>`

```ts
type TinaMarkdown = ({
  // The rich-text data returned from the content API
  content: TinaMarkdownContent
  /**
   * Any templates provided in the rich-text field.
   * Optionally, most elements (ex. <a>) can also
   * be overridden
   */
  components?: Components<{}>
}) => JSX.Element
```

```ts
import { TinaMarkdown } from 'tinacms/dist/rich-text'

// The `props` here are based off our custom "Cta" MDX component
const Cta = (props) => {
  return <h2>{props.heading}</h2>
}

export default function MyPage(props) {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{props.data.post.title}</h1>
      <TinaMarkdown components={{ Cta }} content={props.data.post.body} />
    </div>
  )
}
```

***

## Caveats

Since markdown and MDX are traditionally handled through some sort of build
step, Tina's approach adds some constraints to make things work as expected.
[Read more](/docs/editing/markdown/) about Tina's approach to handling markdown
and MDX.

### All content must be *serializable*

When we say serializable, we mean that they must not be JavaScript expressions that would need to be executed at any point.

* No support for `import`/`export`
* No support for JavaScript expressions (eg. `const a = 2`, `console.log("Hello")`)

For example:

```md
## Today is {new Date().toLocaleString()}
```

This expression will be ignored, instead register a "Date" `template`:

```md
## Today is <Date />
```

Then you can create a `Date` component which returns `new Date().toLocaleString()` under the hood.

### All JSX must be registered as a `template`

In the above example, if you failed to add the `Cta` *template* in your schema definition, the JSX element
will be treated as html

***

## Handling markdown

Since markdown is an open-format Tina does its best to handle the most common syntax's, but in some scenarios Tina will ignore or automatically alter content:

### Unsupported elements

While most markdown features are supported out of the box, Tina will ignore elements that it cannot handle. We *do not* expect to support the full [CommonMark](https://commonmark.org/) and
[GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://github.github.com/gfm/) specs. Be sure to voice your support for various rich-text features by reaching out through one of our [community channels](/community/)!

* Footnotes
* Code blocks via indentation (use ` ``` ` instead)
* Strikethrough

### Automatic transforms

For some elements, Tina will automatically transform the values:

**Bold and italic marks**:

```
__Hello__
```

Will be transformed to:

```
**Hello**
```

**Line items**:

```
- Item 1
```

Will be transformed to:

```
* Item 1
```

**Deeply-nested blockquotes and code blocks**:

Some of the more complex nesting patterns you can do with markdown are not supported

```
* > My blockquote
```

Will be transformed to:

```
* My blockquote
```

## Markdown tables

<div class="short-code-warning">
  <div>
    <p>This is an experimental feature, and the API is subject to change. Have any thoughts? Let us know in the chat, or through one of our <a href="/community/">community channels</a></p>
  </div>

  <svg stroke="currentColor" fill="currentColor" stroke-width="0" viewBox="0 0 512 512" height="1em" width="1em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
    <path d="M32 464h448L256 48 32 464zm248-64h-48v-48h48v48zm0-80h-48v-96h48v96z" />
  </svg>
</div>

Tables are supported through a custom template which is exported from `tinacms`. To use it, import it and provide it as a `template` for your `rich-text` field:

```ts
import { tinaTableTemplate } from 'tinacms'

{
  type: 'rich-text',
  label: 'Body',
  name: '_body',
  templates: [
    tinaTableTemplate,
  ]
}
```

Render it with the `table` component in `<TinaMarkdown>`. Note that the table cell's `value` is a rich-text element so should be rendered with a nested `<TinaMarkdown>` component:

```tsx

const MyTable = props => <table>
  {props.tableRows.map((tableRow) => (
    <tr>
      {tableRow.tableCells.map((tableCell) => (
        <td>
          <TinaMarkdown content={tableCell.value} />
        </td>
      ))}
    </tr>
  ))}
</table>

<TinaMarkdown components={{ table: (props) => <MyTable {...props} /> }} />
```

## Custom shortcode syntax

<div class="short-code-warning">
  <div>
    <p>This is an experimental feature, and the API is subject to change. Have any thoughts? Let us know in the chat, or through one of our <a href="/community/">community channels</a></p>
  </div>

  <svg stroke="currentColor" fill="currentColor" stroke-width="0" viewBox="0 0 512 512" height="1em" width="1em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
    <path d="M32 464h448L256 48 32 464zm248-64h-48v-48h48v48zm0-80h-48v-96h48v96z" />
  </svg>
</div>

If you have some custom shortcode logic in your markdown, you can specify it in the `templates` property and Tina will handle it as if it were a `jsx` element:

The following snippet would throw an error while parsing since Tina doesn't know what to do with `{{}}`:

```markdown
{{ WarningCallout content="This is an experimental feature, and the API is subject to change. Have any thoughts? Let us know in the chat, or through one of our [community channels](/community/)!" }}
```

But you can tell Tina how to handle it with a `template`:

```ts
{
  collections: [
    {
      // ...
      fields: [
        {
          type: 'rich-text',
          name: 'body',
          templates: [
            {
              name: 'WarningCallout',
              label: 'WarningCallout',
              match: {
                start: '{{',
                end: '}}',
              },
              fields: [
                {
                  name: 'content',
                  label: 'Content',
                  type: 'string',
                  required: true,
                  ui: {
                    component: 'textarea',
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          ],
        },
      ],
    },
  ]
}
```

### Raw strings in shortcodes

Certain frameworks support shortcodes with Raw string values:

```
{{<  myshortcode "This is some raw text" >}}
```

This is supported in Tina with the special `_value` field.

```ts
fields: [
  {
    type: 'rich-text',
    name: 'body',
    templates: [
      {
        name: 'myshortcode',
        label: 'myshortcode',
        match: {
          start: '{{',
          end: '}}',
        },
        fields: [
          {
            name: '_value',
            label: 'value',
            type: 'string',
            required: true,
          },
        ],
      },
    ],
  },
]
```

### Nesting content in a shortcode.

Shortcodes can provide a `children` field, which allows content to be nested within a shortcode.

```md
{{% shortcode %}}
What up!
{{% /shortcode %}}
```

Your field template definition would look something like:

```javascript
{
  name: "pull_quote2",
  label: "pull_quote2",
  match: {
    name: "pull-quote",
    start: "{{%",
    end: "%}}"
  },
  fields: [
    {
      name: "children",
      type: "rich-text"
    }
  ]
}
```

> Note: the children type currently needs to be of type: \`rich-text\`.

### Using shortcode names with dashes.

Sometimes your shortcode will contain characters that aren't supported in Tina's content modelling

```md
{{% my-shortcode %}}
```

You can supply a `name` on the `match` object to handle this.

```ts
fields: [
  {
    type: 'rich-text',
    name: 'body',
    templates: [
      {
        name: 'myshortcode',
        label: 'myshortcode',
        match: {
          start: '{{',
          end: '}}',
          name: 'my-shortcode',
        },
        // ...
      },
    ],
  },
]
```

## Other notes

### Full Spec

The full Tina MDX spec can be found [here](https://github.com/tinacms/tinacms/blob/main/packages/%40tinacms/mdx/spec.md "TinaCMS MDX Spec")

### Default values

If setting a default value for a rich-text field, you must provide the document AST. See [example here](/docs/schema/#default-value-for-rich-text)

Commit message:

add docs for toolbar override

content/docs/reference/types/rich-text.mdx, after:

---
title: The "rich-text" field
last_edited: '2021-07-27T15:51:56.737Z'
prev: /docs/reference/types/object
next: /docs/tina-folder/overview
---

# `rich-text`

Tina's `rich-text` field leverages MDX so you can embed your own structured blocks. To render
a `rich-text` field with React we recommend the `<TinaMarkdown>` component from `tinacms`. See [usage](#usage)
for details.

```ts
type RichTextField = {
  label: string
  name: string
  type: 'rich-text'
  templates: Template[]
}
```

## Examples

Tina will generate the appropriate component depending on the
configuration provided.

::::code-snippets
:::code-snippet{open=true url="/img/code-snippets/rich-text-1.png"}

### Simple

```ts
{
  label: "Body",
  name: "body",
  isBody: true,
  type: "rich-text",
}
```

:::
:::code-snippet{open=true url="/img/code-snippets/rich-text-toolbar-override.png"}

### Toolbar Override

Change what you want to display and the order it is displayed in the editor

```ts
{
  label: "Body",
  name: "body",
  isBody: true,
  type: "rich-text",
  toolbarOverride: ["heading", "bold", "italic"],
}
```

:::
:::code-snippet{open=true url="/img/code-snippets/rich-text-3.png"}

### Custom custom templates

```ts
{
  label: "Body",
  name: "body",
  isBody: true,
  type: "rich-text",
  templates: [
    {
      name: "Cta",
      label: "Cta",
      fields: [{
        name: "heading",
        label: "Heading",
        type: "string"
      }
    ]}
  ]
}
```

:::
::::

Given a markdown file like this:

```md
## Hello, world!

This is some text

<Cta heading="Welcome" />
```

Results in the following response from the content API:

<iframe loading="lazy" src="/api/graphiql/?query=%7B%0A%20%20post(relativePath%3A%20%22voteForPedro.json%22)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20body%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D%0A" width="800" height="400" />

## Using `TinaMarkdown`

The `<TinaMarkdown>` component allows you to control how each element
is rendered. You *must* provide a component for each template registered
in the `templates` property of your field definition. Note that you can also
control rendering of built-in elements like `<h1>, <a>, <img>`

```ts
type TinaMarkdown = ({
  // The rich-text data returned from the content API
  content: TinaMarkdownContent
  /**
   * Any templates provided in the rich-text field.
   * Optionally, most elements (ex. <a>) can also
   * be overridden
   */
  components?: Components<{}>
}) => JSX.Element
```

```ts
import { TinaMarkdown } from 'tinacms/dist/rich-text'

// The `props` here are based off our custom "Cta" MDX component
const Cta = (props) => {
  return <h2>{props.heading}</h2>
}

export default function MyPage(props) {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{props.data.post.title}</h1>
      <TinaMarkdown components={{ Cta }} content={props.data.post.body} />
    </div>
  )
}
```

***

## Caveats

Since markdown and MDX are traditionally handled through some sort of build
step, Tina's approach adds some constraints to make things work as expected.
[Read more](/docs/editing/markdown/) about Tina's approach to handling markdown
and MDX.

### All content must be *serializable*

When we say serializable, we mean that they must not be JavaScript expressions that would need to be executed at any point.

* No support for `import`/`export`
* No support for JavaScript expressions (eg. `const a = 2`, `console.log("Hello")`)

For example:

```md
## Today is {new Date().toLocaleString()}
```

This expression will be ignored, instead register a "Date" `template`:

```md
## Today is <Date />
```

Then you can create a `Date` component which returns `new Date().toLocaleString()` under the hood.

### All JSX must be registered as a `template`

In the above example, if you failed to add the `Cta` *template* in your schema definition, the JSX element
will be treated as html

***

## Handling markdown

Since markdown is an open-format Tina does its best to handle the most common syntax's, but in some scenarios Tina will ignore or automatically alter content:

### Unsupported elements

While most markdown features are supported out of the box, Tina will ignore elements that it cannot handle. We *do not* expect to support the full [CommonMark](https://commonmark.org/) and
[GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://github.github.com/gfm/) specs. Be sure to voice your support for various rich-text features by reaching out through one of our [community channels](/community/)!

* Footnotes
* Code blocks via indentation (use ` ``` ` instead)
* Strikethrough

### Automatic transforms

For some elements, Tina will automatically transform the values:

**Bold and italic marks**:

```
__Hello__
```

Will be transformed to:

```
**Hello**
```

**Line items**:

```
- Item 1
```

Will be transformed to:

```
* Item 1
```

**Deeply-nested blockquotes and code blocks**:

Some of the more complex nesting patterns you can do with markdown are not supported

```
* > My blockquote
```

Will be transformed to:

```
* My blockquote
```

## Markdown tables

<div class="short-code-warning">
  <div>
    <p>This is an experimental feature, and the API is subject to change. Have any thoughts? Let us know in the chat, or through one of our <a href="/community/">community channels</a></p>
  </div>

  <svg stroke="currentColor" fill="currentColor" stroke-width="0" viewBox="0 0 512 512" height="1em" width="1em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
    <path d="M32 464h448L256 48 32 464zm248-64h-48v-48h48v48zm0-80h-48v-96h48v96z" />
  </svg>
</div>

Tables are supported through a custom template which is exported from `tinacms`. To use it, import it and provide it as a `template` for your `rich-text` field:

```ts
import { tinaTableTemplate } from 'tinacms'

{
  type: 'rich-text',
  label: 'Body',
  name: '_body',
  templates: [
    tinaTableTemplate,
  ]
}
```

Render it with the `table` component in `<TinaMarkdown>`. Note that the table cell's `value` is a rich-text element so should be rendered with a nested `<TinaMarkdown>` component:

```tsx

const MyTable = props => <table>
  {props.tableRows.map((tableRow) => (
    <tr>
      {tableRow.tableCells.map((tableCell) => (
        <td>
          <TinaMarkdown content={tableCell.value} />
        </td>
      ))}
    </tr>
  ))}
</table>

<TinaMarkdown components={{ table: (props) => <MyTable {...props} /> }} />
```

## Custom shortcode syntax

<div class="short-code-warning">
  <div>
    <p>This is an experimental feature, and the API is subject to change. Have any thoughts? Let us know in the chat, or through one of our <a href="/community/">community channels</a></p>
  </div>

  <svg stroke="currentColor" fill="currentColor" stroke-width="0" viewBox="0 0 512 512" height="1em" width="1em" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
    <path d="M32 464h448L256 48 32 464zm248-64h-48v-48h48v48zm0-80h-48v-96h48v96z" />
  </svg>
</div>

If you have some custom shortcode logic in your markdown, you can specify it in the `templates` property and Tina will handle it as if it were a `jsx` element:

The following snippet would throw an error while parsing since Tina doesn't know what to do with `{{}}`:

```markdown
{{ WarningCallout content="This is an experimental feature, and the API is subject to change. Have any thoughts? Let us know in the chat, or through one of our [community channels](/community/)!" }}
```

But you can tell Tina how to handle it with a `template`:

```ts
{
  collections: [
    {
      // ...
      fields: [
        {
          type: 'rich-text',
          name: 'body',
          templates: [
            {
              name: 'WarningCallout',
              label: 'WarningCallout',
              match: {
                start: '{{',
                end: '}}',
              },
              fields: [
                {
                  name: 'content',
                  label: 'Content',
                  type: 'string',
                  required: true,
                  ui: {
                    component: 'textarea',
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          ],
        },
      ],
    },
  ]
}
```

### Raw strings in shortcodes

Certain frameworks support shortcodes with Raw string values:

```
{{<  myshortcode "This is some raw text" >}}
```

This is supported in Tina with the special `_value` field.

```ts
fields: [
  {
    type: 'rich-text',
    name: 'body',
    templates: [
      {
        name: 'myshortcode',
        label: 'myshortcode',
        match: {
          start: '{{',
          end: '}}',
        },
        fields: [
          {
            name: '_value',
            label: 'value',
            type: 'string',
            required: true,
          },
        ],
      },
    ],
  },
]
```

### Nesting content in a shortcode.

Shortcodes can provide a `children` field, which allows content to be nested within a shortcode.

```md
{{% shortcode %}}
What up!
{{% /shortcode %}}
```

Your field template definition would look something like:

```javascript
{
  name: "pull_quote2",
  label: "pull_quote2",
  match: {
    name: "pull-quote",
    start: "{{%",
    end: "%}}"
  },
  fields: [
    {
      name: "children",
      type: "rich-text"
    }
  ]
}
```

> Note: the children type currently needs to be of type: \`rich-text\`.

### Using shortcode names with dashes.

Sometimes your shortcode will contain characters that aren't supported in Tina's content modelling

```md
{{% my-shortcode %}}
```

You can supply a `name` on the `match` object to handle this.

```ts
fields: [
  {
    type: 'rich-text',
    name: 'body',
    templates: [
      {
        name: 'myshortcode',
        label: 'myshortcode',
        match: {
          start: '{{',
          end: '}}',
          name: 'my-shortcode',
        },
        // ...
      },
    ],
  },
]
```

## Other notes

### Full Spec

The full Tina MDX spec can be found [here](https://github.com/tinacms/tinacms/blob/main/packages/%40tinacms/mdx/spec.md "TinaCMS MDX Spec")

### Default values

If setting a default value for a rich-text field, you must provide the document AST. See [example here](/docs/schema/#default-value-for-rich-text)
