content/docs/forestry/common-errors.md, before:

---
title: Common Errors when Migrating
id: '/docs/forestry/common-errors/'
prev: '/docs/forestry/migrate'
next: '/docs/forestry/accessing-cms'
---

Here is a list of the the common things that someone may run into when migrating from Forestry to TinaCMS.

## Migrating fields with non alphanumeric characters

In TinaCMS all fields can only contain alphanumeric characters or underscores. While in forestry you could have fields with non alphanumeric characters, such as `my-field-name` or `my field name`. The migration tool will convert these fields to `my_field_name` (replacing all non alphanumeric character with `_`).

However, the migration tool will not migrate your content. You will have to update every instance of `my-field-name` to `my_field_name` in your content.

Since the content has been updated you will also update to update your code that renders your site as well. You will have to change `my-field-name` to `my_field_name` in your code as well.

For example if you had a field in your front matter that looked like this.

```yaml
my-cool-field foo bar: 'hello world'
```

It will have to be updated to look like this

```yaml
my_cool_field_foo_bar: 'hello world'
```

## Migrating Blocks

The concept of using [blocks as field types in forestry](https://forestry.io/docs/settings/fields/blocks/) is supported in TinaCMS as [providing templates in an object field](/docs/editing/blocks/). During the migration, the migration tool will convert your blocks into templates in the Tina schema but it will not update your content.

In TinaCMS, instead of the `template` key we use `_template` to avoid name collisions. You will have to update this in your content. As well, it is common for front matter templates to have `-` in the name and since TinaCMS does not support `-` in the name you will have to update the name of the template to use `_` instead.

For example if you had a front matter template that looked like this.

```yaml
---
label: landing-page
fields:
  - type: blocks
    name: sections
    label: Sections
    template_types:
      - template-name
      - feature
      - hero
```

And content that looked like this

```yaml
sections:
  - template: template-name
  #   ...
  - template: feature
  #   ...
```

You would have to update your content to be

```yaml
- _template: call_to_action
#   ...
- _template: feature
#   ...
```

> NOTE: when you update your content you should restart your dev server to see the change in the admin

Since you have updated your content you will have to update all uses of `template` in your rendering code to be `_template` and update `template-name` to be `template_name`.

## Common error message and how to fix them

### GraphQL error

```
Error: GraphQL Document Validation failed with 11 errors;
  Error 0: Fields "<FieldName>" conflict because they return conflicting types "String!" and "String". Use different aliases on the fields to fetch both if this was intentional.
```

This error is because two fiends in your schema have the same name with different types and when querying for both GraphQL throws an error. This error occurs when generating the GraphQL client so if you are not using our data fetching you can mitigate this error by passing the `--noSDK` option to both `tinacms dev` and `tinacms build`.

You can [read more about this issue here](https://github.com/tinacms/tinacms/issues/3150#issuecomment-1239796350)

### Error when getting content in the admin

```
[Error] GetCollection failed: Unable to fetch, errors: Error querying file <File> from collection pages. Please run "tinacms audit" or add the --verbose option for more info
```

![](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1673619483/tina-io/docs/forestry-migration/Screen-Shot-Error-Messager.png)

This can happen for many reasons. Some common reasons are because the data you are trying to fetch is 
- not in the correct format 
- missing a required field
- is missing the `_template` key. 
If you look at the error message in the terminal you should see the exact error that is causing the issue.

For example, if you are missing `_template` you will see an error like this

```
Error: Unable to determine template for item at hugo/content/about.md, no template name provided for collection with multiple templates
    at TinaSchema.getCollectionAndTemplateByFullPath (/Users/logananderson-forestry-mac/dev/forestry.io/forestry.io/node_modules/@tinacms/schema-tools/dist/index.js:224:19)
```

This can be fixed by adding the `_template` key to the front matter of the file.

```md
---
# ...
_template: my_template
---
```

..where "my_template" is the name of the template in the collection to which the file belongs.

## Error `YAMLException: duplicated mapping key`

This happens when you have two keys in the frontmatter of your markdown files that are the same. In forestry, this was allowed but in TinaCMS it is not. You will have to remove one of the keys.

For example, if you have a file that looks like this

```md
---
date: 2021-01-01
date: 2021-01-02
---
```

It will have to be changed to

```md
---
date: 2021-01-02
---
```

Commit message:

docs: add docs for name override (#1498)
* docs: add docs for name override

* Tweak forestry common error docs

* Clarify nameoverride functionality

content/docs/forestry/common-errors.md, after:

---
title: Common Errors when Migrating
id: '/docs/forestry/common-errors/'
prev: '/docs/forestry/migrate'
next: '/docs/forestry/accessing-cms'
---

Here is a list of the the common things that someone may run into when migrating from Forestry to TinaCMS.

## Migrating fields with non alphanumeric characters

In TinaCMS all fields can only contain alphanumeric characters or underscores. While in forestry you could have fields with non alphanumeric characters, such as `my-field-name` or `my field name`.

TinaCMS provides a `nameOverride` property, that allows you to specify how a field with special characters gets output.

E.g:

```js
// collection fields
{
  name: `my_field_name`,
  nameOverride: `my-field-name`
}
```

> The Forestry migration tool (`npx @tinacms/cli init`) should automatically apply nameOverride when importing your templates.

## Migrating Blocks

### \_template vs template

The concept of using [blocks as field types in forestry](https://forestry.io/docs/settings/fields/blocks/) is supported in TinaCMS as [providing templates in an object field](/docs/editing/blocks/). During the migration, the migration tool will convert your blocks into templates in the Tina schema but it will not update your content.

In TinaCMS, instead of the `template` key we use `_template` to avoid name collisions. You will have to update this in your content. As well, it is common for front matter templates to have `-` in the name and since TinaCMS does not support `-` in the name you will have to update the name of the template to use `_` instead.

For example if you had a front matter template that looked like this.

```yaml
---
label: landing-page
fields:
  - type: blocks
    name: sections
    label: Sections
    template_types:
      - template-name
      - feature
      - hero
```

And content that looked like this

```yaml
sections:
  - template: template-name
  #   ...
  - template: feature
  #   ...
```

You would have to update your content to be

```yaml
- _template: call_to_action
#   ...
- _template: feature
#   ...
```

> NOTE: when you update your content you should restart your dev server to see the change in the admin

Since you have updated your content you will have to update all uses of `template` in your rendering code to be `_template` and update `template-name` to be `template_name`.

### templates with common field names of different types

If you have multiple block templates that share a common field name, but the types differ (E.g, multiple templates with a `heading` field, where one is required and the other is not), then you may run into [this GraphQL error](/docs/forestry/common-errors/#graphql-error).

## Common error message and how to fix them

### GraphQL error

```
Error: GraphQL Document Validation failed with 11 errors;
  Error 0: Fields "<FieldName>" conflict because they return conflicting types "String!" and "String". Use different aliases on the fields to fetch both if this was intentional.
```

This error is because two fiends in your schema have the same name with different types and when querying for both GraphQL throws an error. This error occurs when generating the GraphQL client so if you are not using our data fetching you can mitigate this error by passing the `--noSDK` option to both `tinacms dev` and `tinacms build`.

You can [read more about this issue here](https://github.com/tinacms/tinacms/issues/3150#issuecomment-1239796350)

### Error when getting content in the admin

```
[Error] GetCollection failed: Unable to fetch, errors: Error querying file <File> from collection pages. Please run "tinacms audit" or add the --verbose option for more info
```

![](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1673619483/tina-io/docs/forestry-migration/Screen-Shot-Error-Messager.png)

This can happen for many reasons. Some common reasons are because the data you are trying to fetch is

- not in the correct format
- missing a required field
- is missing the `_template` key.
  If you look at the error message in the terminal you should see the exact error that is causing the issue.

For example, if you are missing `_template` you will see an error like this

```
Error: Unable to determine template for item at hugo/content/about.md, no template name provided for collection with multiple templates
    at TinaSchema.getCollectionAndTemplateByFullPath (/Users/logananderson-forestry-mac/dev/forestry.io/forestry.io/node_modules/@tinacms/schema-tools/dist/index.js:224:19)
```

This can be fixed by adding the `_template` key to the front matter of the file.

```md
---
# ...
_template: my_template
---
```

..where "my_template" is the name of the template in the collection to which the file belongs.

## Error `YAMLException: duplicated mapping key`

This happens when you have two keys in the frontmatter of your markdown files that are the same. In forestry, this was allowed but in TinaCMS it is not. You will have to remove one of the keys.

For example, if you have a file that looks like this

```md
---
date: 2021-01-01
date: 2021-01-02
---
```

It will have to be changed to

```md
---
date: 2021-01-02
---
```
