content/docs/contextual-editing/overview.mdx, before:

---
id: /docs/contextual-editing/overview
title: Visual Editing
prev: /docs/features/data-fetching
next: /docs/contextual-editing/react
---

Out of the box, once you define a new collection in Tina, its content becomes available through the "basic editor".

![basic editor](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1647455231/tina-io/docs/basic-editor.png)

Tina also allows for "Visual Editing" so that editors can see their pages being updated in real-time as they make changes

![contextual editor](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1647455231/tina-io/docs/contextual-editing.png)

## Adding contextual-editing to a page

To add visual editing to a page, you'll need to hydrate the pages data. In React, this is done by [using the `useTina`](/docs/contextual-editing/react) hook. We are currently working on adding support for other frameworks such as [vue](/docs/contextual-editing/vue).

## Video Tutorial

For those who prefer to learn from video, you can check out a snippet on Visual Editing from our ["TinaCMS Deep Dive"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PcgnJDILv4w\&list=PLPar4H9PHKVqoCwZy79PHr8-W_vA3lAOB\&pp=iAQB) series.

<div style="position:relative;padding-top:56.25%;">
  <iframe width="560" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen
      style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PcgnJDILv4w?start=1067" title="TinaCMS Deep Dive (Visual Editing)" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share">
  </iframe>
</div>

Commit message:

✨ Tina Live Editing Docs (#1963)
* Add Live Editing + Fix ToC for new data struc

* fixed default route /docs to use all new work rom [..slug].tsx

* Fix product-tour.tsx, make SEO description use new-data

* Fixing Most of the docs and routing

* Update some of the docs to get rid of HTML

* majority of mdx pages

* added open tab mdx component

* finish docs content changes

* add todo

* Remove all references to 'next' and 'prev' as they are old navigation properties

* change from 'nextP' to 'Next' and 'prev' to 'Previous'

* Guides replaced in Docs

* change toc-doc.json for new guides pages

* wip getAllDocs query

* fix route double //

* Remove getDocProps legacy data sourcing method

* Remove oldToc (and replace with newToc) now that guides are apart of docs

* add TODO

* Remove legacy getter method from use

* addressing comments

* Next -> next

* title misdisplay

* push changes for setup-overview removing old legacy items

* warning callout re-added

* remove old html

* Changed from 'MinimizeText' to 'Summary'

* reind

* upd tina lock

* Changed order of next ref

* unescaped js

content/docs/contextual-editing/overview.mdx, after:

---
id: /docs/contextual-editing/overview

title: Visual Editing
next: content/docs/contextual-editing/react.mdx
previous: content/docs/features/data-fetching.mdx
---

Out of the box, once you define a new collection in Tina, its content becomes available through the "basic editor".

![basic editor](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1647455231/tina-io/docs/basic-editor.png)

Tina also allows for "Visual Editing" so that editors can see their pages being updated in real-time as they make changes

![contextual editor](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/v1647455231/tina-io/docs/contextual-editing.png)

## Adding contextual-editing to a page

To add visual editing to a page, you'll need to hydrate the pages data. In React, this is done by [using the `useTina`](/docs/contextual-editing/react) hook. We are currently working on adding support for other frameworks such as [vue](/docs/contextual-editing/vue).

## Video Tutorial

For those who prefer to learn from video, you can check out a snippet on Visual Editing from our ["TinaCMS Deep Dive"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PcgnJDILv4w&list=PLPar4H9PHKVqoCwZy79PHr8-W_vA3lAOB&pp=iAQB) series.

<Youtube embedSrc="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PcgnJDILv4w?start=1067" />
