content/docs/contextual-editing/react.mdx, before:

---
title: Visual Editing in React
id: '/docs/contextual-editing/react'
prev: '/docs/contextual-editing/overview'
next: '/docs/contextual-editing/router'
---

> **Visual Editing Requirements:**
>
> - Before a page can be setup with visual editing, it first needs to be using [Tina's data-fetching](/docs/features/data-fetching/).

In react, (or react based frameworks like Next.js) visual editing can be set up on a page with the `useTina` hook

Here is an example of setting up visual editing, on a NextJS-based site.

```jsx
// ...
import { useTina } from 'tinacms/dist/react'

export default function Home(props) {
  // Pass our data through the "useTina" hook to make it editable
  const { data } = useTina({
    query: props.query,
    variables: props.variables,
    data: props.data,
  })

  // Note how our page title uses "data", and not the original "props.data".
  // This ensures that the content will be updated in edit-mode as the user types
  return <h1>{data.page.title}</h1>
}

export const getStaticProps = async () => {
  const pageResponse = await client.queries.page({ relativePath: 'home.mdx' })

  return {
    props: {
      data: pageResponse.data,
      query: pageResponse.query,
      variables: pageResponse.variables,
    },
  }
}
```

![usetina-hello-world](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/q_32/v1643294947/tina-io/hello-world.png)

## The `useTina` hook:

`useTina` is used to make a piece of Tina content contextually editable. It is code-split, so that in production, this hook will simply pass through its data value. In edit-mode, it registers an editable form in the sidebar, and contextually updates its value as the user types.

`useTina` takes in a parameter with a few keys:

- `query` and `variables`: These are the same values that you would use for the [backend data-fetching](/docs/features/data-fetching/).
- `data`: This is the production value that gets passed through to the response unchanged in production.

> Note: Only queries for individual documents can be used with `useTina`

After a page is setup with the `useTina` hook, you can add a [router to your collection](/docs/contextual-editing/router) so that you can access contextual-editing from the CMS.

## Click to Edit (Experimental)

Tina's "click to edit" feature allows editors to select the element they want to edit on the page in order to see it in the sidebar.

<video
className="video"
autoPlay="true"
loop
muted
playsInline><source
src="https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/video/upload/q_80,h_584/v1684344056/tina-io/docs/quick-edit-demo.mp4"
type="video/webm"
/><source
src="https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/video/upload/q_80,h_584/v1684344056/tina-io/docs/quick-edit-demo.mp4"
type="video/mp4"
/>
</video>

> [Try the demo](https://quick-edit-demo.vercel.app/admin#/~)!

In order for this to work, Tina needs to know what document and field the
element is associated with. Tina makes this easy with the `tinaField` helper
function. Using this function, developers can add the appropriate metadata
to the `[data-tina-field]` attribute.

```jsx
import { useTina, tinaField } from 'tinacms/dist/react'

const Page = (props) => {
  const { data } = useTina(props)
  return (
    <div>
      <h1 data-tina-field={tinaField(data, 'title')}>{data.title}</h1>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Now, when you open the Tina sidebar you'll see editing overlays on any element
that's been configured.

For more information on the tinaField helper, see the [reference docs](/docs/contextual-editing/tinafield)

Commit message:

✨ Tina Live Editing Docs (#1963)
* Add Live Editing + Fix ToC for new data struc

* fixed default route /docs to use all new work rom [..slug].tsx

* Fix product-tour.tsx, make SEO description use new-data

* Fixing Most of the docs and routing

* Update some of the docs to get rid of HTML

* majority of mdx pages

* added open tab mdx component

* finish docs content changes

* add todo

* Remove all references to 'next' and 'prev' as they are old navigation properties

* change from 'nextP' to 'Next' and 'prev' to 'Previous'

* Guides replaced in Docs

* change toc-doc.json for new guides pages

* wip getAllDocs query

* fix route double //

* Remove getDocProps legacy data sourcing method

* Remove oldToc (and replace with newToc) now that guides are apart of docs

* add TODO

* Remove legacy getter method from use

* addressing comments

* Next -> next

* title misdisplay

* push changes for setup-overview removing old legacy items

* warning callout re-added

* remove old html

* Changed from 'MinimizeText' to 'Summary'

* reind

* upd tina lock

* Changed order of next ref

* unescaped js

content/docs/contextual-editing/react.mdx, after:

---
id: /docs/contextual-editing/react
title: Visual Editing in React
next: content/docs/contextual-editing/vue.mdx
previous: content/docs/contextual-editing/overview.mdx
---

> **Visual Editing Requirements:**
> Before a page can be setup with visual editing, it first needs to be using [Tina's data-fetching](/docs/features/data-fetching/).

In react, (or react based frameworks like Next.js) visual editing can be set up on a page with the `useTina` hook

Here is an example of setting up visual editing, on a NextJS-based site.

```jsx
// ...
import { useTina } from 'tinacms/dist/react'

export default function Home(props) {
  // Pass our data through the "useTina" hook to make it editable
  const { data } = useTina({
    query: props.query,
    variables: props.variables,
    data: props.data,
  })

  // Note how our page title uses "data", and not the original "props.data".
  // This ensures that the content will be updated in edit-mode as the user types
  return <h1>{data.page.title}</h1>
}

export const getStaticProps = async () => {
  const pageResponse = await client.queries.page({ relativePath: 'home.mdx' })

  return {
    props: {
      data: pageResponse.data,
      query: pageResponse.query,
      variables: pageResponse.variables,
    },
  }
}
```

![usetina-hello-world](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/q_32/v1643294947/tina-io/hello-world.png)

## The useTina hook:

`useTina` is used to make a piece of Tina content contextually editable. It is code-split, so that in production, this hook will simply pass through its data value. In edit-mode, it registers an editable form in the sidebar, and contextually updates its value as the user types.

`useTina` takes in a parameter with a few keys:

* `query` and `variables`: These are the same values that you would use for the [backend data-fetching](/docs/features/data-fetching/).
* `data`: This is the production value that gets passed through to the response unchanged in production.

> Note: Only queries for individual documents can be used with `useTina`

After a page is setup with the `useTina` hook, you can add a [router to your collection](/docs/contextual-editing/router) so that you can access contextual-editing from the CMS.

## Click to Edit (Experimental)

Tina's "click to edit" feature allows editors to select the element they want to edit on the page in order to see it in the sidebar.

<CloudinaryVideo src="https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/video/upload/q_80,h_584/v1684344056/tina-io/docs/quick-edit-demo" />

> [Try the demo](https://quick-edit-demo.vercel.app/admin#/~)!

In order for this to work, Tina needs to know what document and field the
element is associated with. Tina makes this easy with the `tinaField` helper
function. Using this function, developers can add the appropriate metadata
to the `[data-tina-field]` attribute.

```jsx
import { useTina, tinaField } from 'tinacms/dist/react'

const Page = (props) => {
  const { data } = useTina(props)
  return (
    <div>
      <h1 data-tina-field={tinaField(data, 'title')}>{data.title}</h1>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Now, when you open the Tina sidebar you'll see editing overlays on any element
that's been configured.

For more information on the tinaField helper, see the [reference docs](/docs/contextual-editing/tinafield)
