content/docs/contextual-editing/react.md, before:

---
title: Contextual Editing in React
id: '/docs/contextual-editing/react'
prev: '/docs/contextual-editing/overview'
next: '/docs/contextual-editing/router'
---

> **Contextual Editing Requirements:**
>
> - Before a page can be setup with contextual editing, it first needs to be using [Tina's data-fetching](/docs/features/data-fetching/).

In react, (or react based frameworks like Next.js) contextual editing can be set up on a page with the `useTina` hook

Here is an example of setting up contextual editing, on a NextJS-based site.

```jsx
// ...
import { useTina } from 'tinacms/dist/react'

export default function Home(props) {
  // Pass our data through the "useTina" hook to make it editable
  const { data } = useTina({
    query: props.query,
    variables: props.variables,
    data: props.data,
  })

  // Note how our page body uses "data", and not the original "props.data".
  // This ensures that the content will be updated in edit-mode as the user types
  return <h1>{data.page.body}</h1>
}

export const getStaticProps = async () => {
  const pageResponse = await client.queries.page({ relativePath: 'home.mdx' })

  return {
    props: {
      data: pageResponse.data,
      query: pageResponse.query,
      variables: pageResponse.variables,
    },
  }
}
```

![usetina-hello-world](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/q_32/v1643294947/tina-io/hello-world.png)

## The `useTina` hook:

`useTina` is used to make a piece of Tina content contextually editable. It is code-split, so that in production, this hook will simply pass through its data value. In edit-mode, it registers an editable form in the sidebar, and contextually updates its value as the user types.

`useTina` takes in a parameter with a few keys:

- `query` and `variables`: These are the same values that you would use for the [backend data-fetching](/docs/features/data-fetching/).
- `data`: This is the production value that gets passed through to the response unchanged in production.

> Note: Only queries for individual documents can be used with `useTina`

After a page is setup with the `useTina` hook, you can add a [router to your collection](/docs/contextual-editing/router) so that you can access contextual-editing from the CMS.

## Click to Edit (Experimental)

Tina's "click to edit" feature allows editors to select the element they want to edit on the page in order to see it in the sidebar.

<video
className="video"
autoPlay="true"
loop
muted
playsInline><source
src="https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/video/upload/q_80,h_584/v1684344056/tina-io/docs/quick-edit-demo.mp4"
type="video/webm"
/><source
src="https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/video/upload/q_80,h_584/v1684344056/tina-io/docs/quick-edit-demo.mp4"
type="video/mp4"
/>
</video>

> [Try the demo](https://quick-edit-demo.vercel.app/admin#/~)!

In order for this to work, Tina needs to know what document and field the
element is associated with. Tina makes this easy with the `tinaField` helper
function. Using this function, developers can add the appropriate metadata
to the `[data-tina-field]` attribute.

```jsx
import { useTina, tinaField } from 'tinacms/dist/react'

const Page = (props) => {
  const { data } = useTina(props)
  return (
    <div>
      <h1 data-tina-field={tinaField(data, 'title')}>{data.title}</h1>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Now, when you open the Tina sidebar you'll see editing overlays on any element
that's been configured.

> "Click to edit" will work for any field in your query, this means you can also click on fields from references as well.

### Styling the visual editing interface

When Tina finds an element with the `[data-tina-field]` attribute, it will attach some CSS to it when in edit mode, clicking on the element triggers
the Tina form to open and focus the matching field.

Since Tina uses CSS to achieve the interface, it's possible for styles to collide. Overriding and customizing Tina's
styles are encouraged. Here's an example of overriding the outline color to red:

```css
.__tina-quick-editing-enabled [data-tina-field] {
  outline: 2px dashed rgba(254, 34, 56, 0.5);
}
.__tina-quick-editing-enabled [data-tina-field]:hover {
  outline: 2px dashed rgba(254, 34, 56, 1);
}
```

### The `tinaField` helper

The `tinaField` function is a _type-safe_ helper designed to pluck the metadata out of the data object for the given
property to be used on the `[data-tina-field]` attribute:

```js
// Get metadata for the 'object' field
tinaField(data)
// Get metadata for the `data.title` field
tinaField(data, 'title')
```

| Argument   | Description                                                                                                | Type   | Required |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ | -------- |
| `object`   | The object which holds the field you're accessing                                                          | Object | Yes      |
| `property` | The property from the object which you're accessing, omitting this will return the object field's metadata | String | No       |

```jsx
// components/blocks/hero
import { tinaField } from 'tinacms/dist/react'

export const HeroComponent = (props) => {
  return (
    <div>
      <h4 data-tina-field={tinaField(props, 'heading')}>{props.heading}</h4>
      <p data-tina-field={tinaField(props, 'message')}>{props.message}</p>
      <ul data-tina-field={tinaField(props, 'links')}>
        {props.links.map((link) => (
          <li>
            <a data-tina-field={tinaField(link)} href={link.url}>
              {link.label}
            </a>
          </li>
        ))}
      </ul>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Notice that the `<a>` tag's data attribute only needs access to the `link` data object.

#### How does the `tinaField` helper work?

When not in edit mode, the `data` returned by the `useTina` hook might look like this:

```js
{
  page: {
    title: 'Hello, world',
    blocks: [{
      __typename: 'PageBlocksHero',
      heading: 'Hi, again!',
      description: 'Some description'
      links: [{
        label: "About Us",
        url: '/about=us'
      }]
    }]
  }
}
```

Once edit mode is enabled, Tina will update each nested object with `_tina_metadata`:

```js
{
  page: {
    title: 'Hello, world',
    blocks: [{
      __typename: 'PageBlocksHero',
      heading: 'Hi, again!',
      description: 'Some description'
      links: [{
        label: "About Us",
        url: '/about=us',
        _tina_metadata: {
          formId: "content/pages/hello-world.md",
          fields: {
            // tinaField(link, 'label') -> `023nsk-page.blocks.0.links.0.label`
            label: "page.blocks.0.links.0.label",
            url: "page.blocks.0.links.0.link",
          }
        }
      }],
      _tina_metadata: {...}
    }],
    _tina_metadata: {...}
  }
}
```

The `tinaField` helper simply plucks out the appropriate information from the `_tina_metadata` object.

Commit message:

rename contextual editing to visual

content/docs/contextual-editing/react.md, after:

---
title: Visual Editing in React
id: '/docs/contextual-editing/react'
prev: '/docs/contextual-editing/overview'
next: '/docs/contextual-editing/router'
---

> **Visual Editing Requirements:**
>
> - Before a page can be setup with visual editing, it first needs to be using [Tina's data-fetching](/docs/features/data-fetching/).

In react, (or react based frameworks like Next.js) visual editing can be set up on a page with the `useTina` hook

Here is an example of setting up visual editing, on a NextJS-based site.

```jsx
// ...
import { useTina } from 'tinacms/dist/react'

export default function Home(props) {
  // Pass our data through the "useTina" hook to make it editable
  const { data } = useTina({
    query: props.query,
    variables: props.variables,
    data: props.data,
  })

  // Note how our page body uses "data", and not the original "props.data".
  // This ensures that the content will be updated in edit-mode as the user types
  return <h1>{data.page.body}</h1>
}

export const getStaticProps = async () => {
  const pageResponse = await client.queries.page({ relativePath: 'home.mdx' })

  return {
    props: {
      data: pageResponse.data,
      query: pageResponse.query,
      variables: pageResponse.variables,
    },
  }
}
```

![usetina-hello-world](https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/image/upload/q_32/v1643294947/tina-io/hello-world.png)

## The `useTina` hook:

`useTina` is used to make a piece of Tina content contextually editable. It is code-split, so that in production, this hook will simply pass through its data value. In edit-mode, it registers an editable form in the sidebar, and contextually updates its value as the user types.

`useTina` takes in a parameter with a few keys:

- `query` and `variables`: These are the same values that you would use for the [backend data-fetching](/docs/features/data-fetching/).
- `data`: This is the production value that gets passed through to the response unchanged in production.

> Note: Only queries for individual documents can be used with `useTina`

After a page is setup with the `useTina` hook, you can add a [router to your collection](/docs/contextual-editing/router) so that you can access contextual-editing from the CMS.

## Click to Edit (Experimental)

Tina's "click to edit" feature allows editors to select the element they want to edit on the page in order to see it in the sidebar.

<video
className="video"
autoPlay="true"
loop
muted
playsInline><source
src="https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/video/upload/q_80,h_584/v1684344056/tina-io/docs/quick-edit-demo.mp4"
type="video/webm"
/><source
src="https://res.cloudinary.com/forestry-demo/video/upload/q_80,h_584/v1684344056/tina-io/docs/quick-edit-demo.mp4"
type="video/mp4"
/>
</video>

> [Try the demo](https://quick-edit-demo.vercel.app/admin#/~)!

In order for this to work, Tina needs to know what document and field the
element is associated with. Tina makes this easy with the `tinaField` helper
function. Using this function, developers can add the appropriate metadata
to the `[data-tina-field]` attribute.

```jsx
import { useTina, tinaField } from 'tinacms/dist/react'

const Page = (props) => {
  const { data } = useTina(props)
  return (
    <div>
      <h1 data-tina-field={tinaField(data, 'title')}>{data.title}</h1>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Now, when you open the Tina sidebar you'll see editing overlays on any element
that's been configured.

> "Click to edit" will work for any field in your query, this means you can also click on fields from references as well.

### Styling the visual editing interface

When Tina finds an element with the `[data-tina-field]` attribute, it will attach some CSS to it when in edit mode, clicking on the element triggers
the Tina form to open and focus the matching field.

Since Tina uses CSS to achieve the interface, it's possible for styles to collide. Overriding and customizing Tina's
styles are encouraged. Here's an example of overriding the outline color to red:

```css
.__tina-quick-editing-enabled [data-tina-field] {
  outline: 2px dashed rgba(254, 34, 56, 0.5);
}
.__tina-quick-editing-enabled [data-tina-field]:hover {
  outline: 2px dashed rgba(254, 34, 56, 1);
}
```

### The `tinaField` helper

The `tinaField` function is a _type-safe_ helper designed to pluck the metadata out of the data object for the given
property to be used on the `[data-tina-field]` attribute:

```js
// Get metadata for the 'object' field
tinaField(data)
// Get metadata for the `data.title` field
tinaField(data, 'title')
```

| Argument   | Description                                                                                                | Type   | Required |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ | -------- |
| `object`   | The object which holds the field you're accessing                                                          | Object | Yes      |
| `property` | The property from the object which you're accessing, omitting this will return the object field's metadata | String | No       |

```jsx
// components/blocks/hero
import { tinaField } from 'tinacms/dist/react'

export const HeroComponent = (props) => {
  return (
    <div>
      <h4 data-tina-field={tinaField(props, 'heading')}>{props.heading}</h4>
      <p data-tina-field={tinaField(props, 'message')}>{props.message}</p>
      <ul data-tina-field={tinaField(props, 'links')}>
        {props.links.map((link) => (
          <li>
            <a data-tina-field={tinaField(link)} href={link.url}>
              {link.label}
            </a>
          </li>
        ))}
      </ul>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Notice that the `<a>` tag's data attribute only needs access to the `link` data object.

#### How does the `tinaField` helper work?

When not in edit mode, the `data` returned by the `useTina` hook might look like this:

```js
{
  page: {
    title: 'Hello, world',
    blocks: [{
      __typename: 'PageBlocksHero',
      heading: 'Hi, again!',
      description: 'Some description'
      links: [{
        label: "About Us",
        url: '/about=us'
      }]
    }]
  }
}
```

Once edit mode is enabled, Tina will update each nested object with `_tina_metadata`:

```js
{
  page: {
    title: 'Hello, world',
    blocks: [{
      __typename: 'PageBlocksHero',
      heading: 'Hi, again!',
      description: 'Some description'
      links: [{
        label: "About Us",
        url: '/about=us',
        _tina_metadata: {
          formId: "content/pages/hello-world.md",
          fields: {
            // tinaField(link, 'label') -> `023nsk-page.blocks.0.links.0.label`
            label: "page.blocks.0.links.0.label",
            url: "page.blocks.0.links.0.link",
          }
        }
      }],
      _tina_metadata: {...}
    }],
    _tina_metadata: {...}
  }
}
```

The `tinaField` helper simply plucks out the appropriate information from the `_tina_metadata` object.
