content/docs/reference/content-api/data-layer.md, before:

---
title: Data Layer
last_edited: '2022-06-15T15:51:56.737Z'
---

Tina Cloud implements a database layer between the Tina GraphQL API and the
underlying Git repository. This data layer buffers requests between Tina Cloud and GitHub resulting in improved editing performance with TinaCMS. It also enables additional capabilities such as:

- [sorting](/docs/graphql/queries/advanced/sorting/)
- [filtering](/docs/graphql/queries/advanced/filter-documents/)
- [pagination](/docs/graphql/queries/advanced/pagination/)
- referential integrity

# Indexing

Tina Cloud will automatically maintain a synchronized copy of your repository in our
secure cloud database. We refer to this synchronization process as indexing. It involves fetching each item from your
GitHub remote repository and storing a copy in the database. After the initial indexing process, Tina Cloud will only
index content that has been updated. There are some circumstances where a full re-indexing may be required. Some example
scenarios are:

- Changes to `.tina/schema.ts`
- Changes to the [path to tina](/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects/#path-to-tina)
- Changes to the configured [repository](/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects/#changing-the-repository)
- New branches in GitHub

## Synchronization Issues

### Webhook Failures

In rare circumstances, the GitHub webhook connecting your repository to Tina Cloud may be disrupted. If the webhook does
not execute, Tina Cloud may become out of sync with your GitHub repository.

Use the [Refresh Webhooks](/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects/#refresh-webhooks) button to re-initialize the webhook.

### External Updates Not Synchronized

In some cases, Tina Cloud's repository cache may become out of sync with your GitHub repository which might result in
changes being present in your repository but not in TinaCMS. Generally this should only happen if there is a problem
with the GitHub webhook. If this does occur, you can reset the cached repository, restoring the cache to the current
state of your repository. This will discard any updates in Tina Cloud that haven't been pushed to your repository.

Use the [Reset Repository Cache](/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects/#reset-repository-cache) button to re-initialize the webhook.

### Conflicts

If you have changes that are visible in edit mode but not in your repository or site, there may be a conflict between
the TinaCMS repository cache and your GitHub repository. In this situation, it may be necessary to force push the
changes to your repository to resolve this issue. This will destroy any commits in your GitHub repository that are not
in the TinaCMS repository cache and should be used with caution.

Use the [Force Push](/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects/#force-push) button to re-initialize the webhook.

Commit message:

add documentation for export branch (#1414)

content/docs/reference/content-api/data-layer.md, after:

---
title: Data Layer
last_edited: '2022-06-15T15:51:56.737Z'
---

Tina Cloud implements a database layer between the Tina GraphQL API and the
underlying Git repository. This data layer buffers requests between Tina Cloud and GitHub resulting in improved editing performance with TinaCMS. It also enables additional capabilities such as:

- [sorting](/docs/graphql/queries/advanced/sorting/)
- [filtering](/docs/graphql/queries/advanced/filter-documents/)
- [pagination](/docs/graphql/queries/advanced/pagination/)
- referential integrity

# Indexing

Tina Cloud will automatically maintain a synchronized copy of your repository in our
secure cloud database. We refer to this synchronization process as indexing. It involves fetching each item from your
GitHub remote repository and storing a copy in the database. After the initial indexing process, Tina Cloud will only
index content that has been updated. There are some circumstances where a full re-indexing may be required. Some example
scenarios are:

- Changes to `.tina/schema.ts`
- Changes to the [path to tina](/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects/#path-to-tina)
- Changes to the configured [repository](/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects/#changing-the-repository)
- New branches in GitHub

## Synchronization Issues

### Webhook Failures

In rare circumstances, the GitHub webhook connecting your repository to Tina Cloud may be disrupted. If the webhook does
not execute, Tina Cloud may become out of sync with your GitHub repository.

Use the [Refresh Webhooks](/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects/#refresh-webhooks) button to re-initialize the webhook.

### External Updates Not Synchronized

In some cases, Tina Cloud's repository cache may become out of sync with your GitHub repository which might result in
changes being present in your repository but not in TinaCMS. Generally this should only happen if there is a problem
with the GitHub webhook. If this does occur, you can reset the cached repository, restoring the cache to the current
state of your repository. This will discard any updates in Tina Cloud that haven't been pushed to your repository.

Use the [Reset Repository Cache](/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects/#reset-repository-cache) button to re-initialize the webhook.

### Export Branch

Using [Reset Repository Cache](/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects/#reset-repository-cache) will discard any changes in 
Tina Cloud that haven't been pushed to your repository. If you need to export your unsaved content from Tina Cloud, you
can use the [Export Branch](/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects/#export-branch) button to export the current state of
your repository to a new branch.

### Conflicts

If you have changes that are visible in edit mode but not in your repository or site, there may be a conflict between
the TinaCMS repository cache and your GitHub repository. In this situation, it may be necessary to force push the
changes to your repository to resolve this issue. This will destroy any commits in your GitHub repository that are not
in the TinaCMS repository cache and should be used with caution.

Use the [Force Push](/docs/tina-cloud/dashboard/projects/#force-push) button to re-initialize the webhook.
