content/docs/drafts/drafts-fields.mdx, before:

---
id: /docs/drafts/draft-fields
title: Draft Fields
prev: /docs/drafts/overview
next: /docs/drafts/editorial-workflow
---

Adding a "Draft Field" is one approach to handling "drafts" in TinaCMS

## What is a "Draft Field"?

"Draft Fields" are just simply fields that can be used to indicate whether a document is a draft or not. There is nothing special about draft fields, are they are not treated any differently then any other boolean field.

### Setting up a draft field

The "draft" field can be added to the top level fields of a collection.

```ts
const schema = defineSchema({
  collections: [
    {
      name: 'post',
      label: 'Post',
      path: 'content/posts',
      fields: [
        {
          name: 'draft',
          label: 'Draft',
          type: 'boolean',
          required: true,
          description: 'If this is checked the post will not be published',
        },
        // ... other fields
      ],
    },
  ],
})
```

> Note: It's usually a good practice to make draft fields required. This may require adding the draft field to your existing documents

### Excluding drafts from your production queries

You can add a filter to filter out draft documents from your queries:

```ts
// getting production posts
const req = await client.queries.postConnection({
  filter: { draft: { eq: false } },
})

// getting all posts
const req = await client.queries.postConnection()
```

Read more about querying data [here](/docs/data-fetching/overview).

> If you're using a Draft field with a static site generator like Hugo, any documents with "draft: true" will be omitted from your production site out-of-the-box.

## Caveats:

* The above solution won't work as-is with [visual editing](/docs/contextual-editing/overview). To setup visual editing with drafts, you will need to implement [NextJS Preview-Mode](/guides/tinacms/contextual-drafts/guide/).

Commit message:

✨ Tina Live Editing Docs (#1963)
* Add Live Editing + Fix ToC for new data struc

* fixed default route /docs to use all new work rom [..slug].tsx

* Fix product-tour.tsx, make SEO description use new-data

* Fixing Most of the docs and routing

* Update some of the docs to get rid of HTML

* majority of mdx pages

* added open tab mdx component

* finish docs content changes

* add todo

* Remove all references to 'next' and 'prev' as they are old navigation properties

* change from 'nextP' to 'Next' and 'prev' to 'Previous'

* Guides replaced in Docs

* change toc-doc.json for new guides pages

* wip getAllDocs query

* fix route double //

* Remove getDocProps legacy data sourcing method

* Remove oldToc (and replace with newToc) now that guides are apart of docs

* add TODO

* Remove legacy getter method from use

* addressing comments

* Next -> next

* title misdisplay

* push changes for setup-overview removing old legacy items

* warning callout re-added

* remove old html

* Changed from 'MinimizeText' to 'Summary'

* reind

* upd tina lock

* Changed order of next ref

* unescaped js

content/docs/drafts/drafts-fields.mdx, after:

---
id: /docs/drafts/draft-fields

title: Draft Fields
next: content/docs/drafts/editorial-workflow.mdx
previous: content/docs/drafts/overview.mdx
---

Adding a "Draft Field" is one approach to handling "drafts" in TinaCMS

## What is a "Draft Field"?

"Draft Fields" are just simply fields that can be used to indicate whether a document is a draft or not. There is nothing special about draft fields, are they are not treated any differently then any other boolean field.

### Setting up a draft field

The "draft" field can be added to the top level fields of a collection.

```ts
const schema = defineSchema({
  collections: [
    {
      name: 'post',
      label: 'Post',
      path: 'content/posts',
      fields: [
        {
          name: 'draft',
          label: 'Draft',
          type: 'boolean',
          required: true,
          description: 'If this is checked the post will not be published',
        },
        // ... other fields
      ],
    },
  ],
})
```

> Note: It's usually a good practice to make draft fields required. This may require adding the draft field to your existing documents

### Excluding drafts from your production queries

You can add a filter to filter out draft documents from your queries:

```ts
// getting production posts
const req = await client.queries.postConnection({
  filter: { draft: { eq: false } },
})

// getting all posts
const req = await client.queries.postConnection()
```

Read more about querying data [here](/docs/data-fetching/overview).

> If you're using a Draft field with a static site generator like Hugo, any documents with "draft: true" will be omitted from your production site out-of-the-box.

## Caveats:

- The above solution won't work as-is with [visual editing](/docs/contextual-editing/overview). To setup visual editing with drafts, you will need to implement [NextJS Preview-Mode](/guides/tinacms/contextual-drafts/guide/).
